Life is full of surprises. Good and bad…because well, that’s life. Sometimes one outweighs the other. Sometimes you get pleasantly surprised, and other times, very rarely, life just blows you away with the completely unexpected like it does in the movies. You know the one’s where we see your run-of-the-mill girl discovering she’s actually a princess or a guy finding out he had a long lost relative (not the email phishing scam kind), who he never heard of, who leaves him a fortune. Your life can go a full 180°. But we can’t wait for those days to come because as mentioned above, it very rarely happens. Which is why you need to live in the now. Make things happen for you now. You need to be your own good fortune. Whatever you want to do, give it time. Learn, Fail, Fail harder and learn again. Now I hear you say, “hold on, hold on, well then why did you say anything can happen in a day if you’re talking about giving success time”? Well, every day you learn something new. Something you didn’t know the day before. That in itself is progress. When all that progress adds up, your final goal could be around the corner, and you won’t even know it. Take for example you wanting to become a music artist. You love music, you’ve been listening to it your whole life, so you know what’s good and what’s bad. You tell yourself you can do better. So, you begin writing down what’s on your mind. You take a break. You play some video games. You come back and read what you wrote. You laugh and then cry because it is so, so bad. You throw it in the bin. Then you’re left with two options. Option one: you uncrumple what you’ve thrown in the bin and make it better, or option two; you carry on playing video games and tell yourself that being an artist isn’t for you. If you choose to carry on, then that’s the first step on the road to your success. A year later you could find yourself in the recording studio dropping some dope freestyle lyrics, only to find that the producer forgot to press record…like what happened with lindough_rsa . Wimpy wants to remind you that anything can happen in a day, but until that day comes there are other ways to enjoy every moment now, like getting their 90g beef patty and boerie grill with chips and toast for only R59.90. Enjoy this moment now, and click here to view Wimpy’s latest promotions.