June 1 is the celebration of World Milk Day, and it highlights that dairy offers multiple benefits for our families, from giving us the energy to get through the day and promoting gut health, to helping us get a good night’s sleep and strengthening our immune systems. Registered dietitian at Rediscover Dairy, Maretha Vermaak, said, “Milk is a source of valuable nutrients, such as good-quality protein, naturally occurring sugars and micronutrients such as vitamins and minerals and an array of different fats, that support your immune system. “Dairy is a nutritious food that is tasty and convenient to use, any time of the day. Dairy can be included in any meal, breakfast, lunch and supper, as well as snacks and lunchboxes. “When you include milk, maas, yogurt or cheese in your family’s diet, you will help to ensure that everybody gets what they need to stay healthy.” Eating dairy three times a day can help give your family: Energy to get you through the day As adults, we work hard and our children also have busy, active days. Dairy foods are affordable, convenient, ‘all-in-one’ products that are easy and quick to consume. They deliver a package of naturally occurring nutrients that are easily absorbed by the body while also providing energy. Vitamin B12 helps with energy metabolism and also keeps your family mentally alert at work and school. The protein in dairy is complete, which means it provides all the essential amino acids needed to build and repair body tissues. Essential amino acids cannot be made by the body and must be consumed by eating and drinking protein-rich foods. Milk protein makes us feel fuller for longer and prevents us from getting hungry too quickly and snacking too often. For the active, sporty family, milk and flavoured milk help rehydrate and strengthen our bodies after exercise. Gut health for overall well-being A healthy gut microbiome – your intestinal community of microorganisms – supports overall health and well-being. Fermented dairy foods such as maas and yogurt provide probiotics, which are active bacterial cultures that benefit the gut microbiome and overall wellness. Including adequate servings of maas and yogurt in your diet daily can help to promote the diversity of the gut microbiota. Strong immunity helps prevent sickness We are all concerned about keeping healthy and warding off infections and illnesses. Eating a balanced diet that includes foods from all the different food groups will help build a strong immune system, so that you can lead a productive and active lifestyle. Protein, vitamin A and zinc provided by milk are especially beneficial in keeping your immune system strong, and probiotics provided by fermented dairy products like maas give extra support. A good night’s sleep A glass of warm milk at night will help you and your kids sleep more peacefully. Elevated stress levels often interfere with our ability to get a good night’s rest. Milk contains the amino acid tryptophan. The body uses tryptophan to produce the “feel-good” hormone serotonin, which helps us relax. ALSO READ: Uplands celebrates Ascension Day Dairy is affordable all-round nutrition One of the best things about milk is that it is an affordable daily food. Milk and dairy are nutrient-rich, packed with many essential nutrients, and give you fantastic nutritional value for money. By just adding milk, maas or yogurt to a meal three times a day, you can make healthy food choices and give your body much-needed nutrients to stay strong and healthy.