This came after quitting sex work a few years ago. Tlou-Maseko is now an advocate for change regarding women and girls in prostitution. She has helped many girls to leave the streets and start their lives on a clean slate. She is the founder of the Impumelelo Yethu Foundation, a community-based organisation established in December 2017 and registered with the Department of Social Development. It is based in Sifunindlea, KaBokweni. “My aim is to free all of the women and girls from disadvantaged backgrounds. I advocate for their human and civil rights. Through the organisation we aim to love them unconditionally and provide capacity building programmes including psychological counselling for them,” Tlou-Maseko said. “We encourage equal human rights and non-discrimination to all women, regardless of their background,” she said. The Impumelelo Yethu Foundation also creates awareness regarding gender-based violence, women and child trafficking and issues around sexual exploitation of sex workers. Tlou-Maseko spoke about her of experience of more than nine years as a one of the many women who makes a living through prostitution. “The fear of knowing who I was, was traumatic. Not knowing how my family, friends and community who didn’t know what I was doing to survive would treat me after knowing about my past, also haunted me,” she said. ALSO READ: Pienaar murder suspect appear in court for bail application She added that coming out in public about her past meant she needed to be brave enough to deal with rejection from people she knew, even the police. She said she had been denied her right to open a rape case a few years back. “The SAPS just asked if the guy hadn’t paid me as they knew I was a prostitute. They actually told him to pay me R3 000. However, knowing that I have experienced far worse situations than that while I was still in prostitution, I persevered,” Tlou-Maseko said. The desire to leave the past in the past motivated her to talk about her past experience. Day by day and year after year she became an inspiration to many. She describes herself as a strong, vibrant, ambitious, hard-working woman and survivor striving for the liberation of all sex workers. Tlou-Maseko thanked a Belgium missionary, Catherine Restiau, who believed and trusted her enough to hire her as her personal assistant at the Project Dignity Foundation. The organisation offers exit programmes for prostitution. She also thanked her husband who has stood by her side all this time. ALSO READ: Restaurant employees are left high and dry According to her, speaking up and telling the world about her experience makes her feel better. The love and and hugs she receives afterwards goes a long way in her healing. Anyone willing to support the Impumelelo Yethu Foundation, may call Tlou-Maseko on 076-451-11194 or send an email to thildahnompy@gmail.com.