Scores of taxis belonging to the Topstar and KaBokweni Taxi associations gathered at the entrance of the D725 leading to UMP off the R40 early on Tuesday morning to protest the university’s alleged use of private transport for students. The KaBokweni Taxi Association’s chairperson, Frank Nkambule, alleged UMP had private transport for students, but that the private company did not have the correct certificates and permits to operate on the route to the institution. “The university has not listened to us, so we blocked the road leading to the university in the hopes they will come and talk to us,” said Nkambule. “It is a peaceful blockade. We have sent three letters to the management, but have not had a response. We don’t want them to merely listen to what we have to say,” he said. ALSO READ: Pledge to donate blood this World Blood Donor Day The Topstar Taxi Association chairperson, John Mavundla, added that they wanted a peaceful meeting where everyone could discuss their concerns. However, on Tuesday UMP said it had not hired any private transportation services. The university’s spokesperson, Tlangelani Ubisi, said the institution’s understanding of the situation, based on their meeting with the associations on Tuesday, was that the taxi associations would like to be the ones transporting students who are staying in the accredited private accommodation facilities. “The current arrangement is that the accredited private accommodation providers are responsible for transport arrangements to get students to campus. The transportation of students to campus is part of the accreditation process,” said Ubisi. ALSO READ: The latest in the Feeding Frenzy vs SPCA saga “UMP had been in engagement with Topstar Taxi Association. Two meetings were held with them in 2019 and early 2020,” said Ubisi. “There is an email that Topstar had sent to Student Housing at the university on May 24 requesting a meeting. Management only learned about this email today (Tuesday) in the meeting with the taxi associations.” He said the university met with the two associations on Tuesday at 10:30 and had a follow-up meeting arranged for Wednesday at 09:00. “The university was not able to operate this morning following the blockade of access to the institution by the taxi associations. However, UMP was able to continue with its online activities and virtual engagements.” Ubisi said the road was opened at 15:00 on Tuesday. The university was still in talks with the associations at the time of going to press. ALSO READ: Water levels continue to drop in Mpumalanga