“This is really breaking the camel’s back, and we are having to rely on the good hearts of struggling citizens.” These were the words of Oupa Pilane, the president of Kruger Lowveld Business Chamber and Tourism, regarding the changing of restaurant sit-ins to takeaways and deliveries only. ALSO READ: Nelspruit SPCA temporarily closed due to Covid-19 case The announcement of lockdown adjusted alert level 4 was made by President Cyril Ramaphosa on June 27. Pilane said just two weeks’ loss of revenue in the restaurant industry could take about eight months to recover. “And a month’s loss of revenue can take a whole year to recover. These businesses have rent to think about, salaries to pay and other input costs. Lots of businesses are really worried about their employees and how they are managing to put food on their table.” “These small businesses are meant to carry on with all these expenses like nothing has happened. It is tough. We are in hell.” ALSO READ: Inquest into Lily Mine disaster begins in Barberton However, Pilane thanked the citizens who were supporting their local restaurants by regularly going for takeaways or ordering out. “Every citizen is struggling, and we thank those who have been supporting us where they can. You are really a godsend,” he said. The Greek Kouzina’s owner, Deon Dennis, said his restaurant has had an immediate loss of 80% on daily turnover. “We are open for takeaways, curbside pick-ups and deliveries within five kilometres, and are operating on a skeleton staff with reduced hours, as The Greek is now open only from 11:30 until 19:00. ALSO SEE: WATCH: Car crashes into tow truck, then Midas property “This latest lockdown is already devastating to us, in that nine of our permanent staff members are temporarily laid off, and there is no indication from government whether they will be able to claim UIF or UIF TERS.” He said restaurants and pubs need landlords to realise these devastating effects, and commit to sustainable business by reducing rent. “We are unsure how long this current lockdown will be, as it may be extended beyond July 11. The business community needs to stand together to weather this storm and help pull each other through.” ALSO READ: Big chunk of Limpopo’s budget goes to health and education