MBOMBELA –  For Jordan and Mycayla Fourie of Machadodorp, practising what they love, with much support and encouragement from mum Antoinette and dad Johan, has become a way of life.Mycayla loves horses. “I would love to become a vet or a horse trainer once I have completed school,” she said. Mycayla does, however, also love racing at the oval track. “I started racing a go-kart at Rietkuil at the age of six.” Now 14, in grade eight and racing in the Stockrod (Rookie) class driving a Opel Kadett, her intention is to perhaps, in two years time, move up into the 1660 class. “This is probably the most competitive class in oval track racing and it can get rough. I am not so sure that I can handle this yet and my dad will not allow it either. “Moving from go-karts to a normal car was quite dramatic. I had to learn to shift gears while also focusing on braking and speed – especially going into corners. I don’t have a rearview mirror, because having to watch that also would just be too demanding at this time.” Which do you prefer – tar or gravel? “Rietkuil is tar, but after having raced at the oval in Mbombela, I think I prefer gravel.” Who is your favourite racing driver? “Oupa Nick de Witt,” she replied without any hesitation.She loves racing, horses and, believe it or not, mathematics! What can go wrong? ALSO READ: Inspiring a community of young plant lovers Jordan, also with Dad’s encouragement, started racing go-karts and did quite well. “I just recently moved into the junior Stockrod class racing with a Datsun and have already had more wins than any of my competitors. We race mostly at Rietkuil, but we have been to Potgietersrus and also the oval in Mbombela. At Rietkuil there can be as many as eight cars in this class, so it is quite competitive. I am quite small, so I sit on top of a piece of high-density foam, and then, learning to change gears, work the brakes, accelerator and the rest, was a huge learning curve,” he said. He has already been involved in two not-too-serious accidents. “It really makes me mad. And yes, I would like to also race in the 1660 class, but I have to drive like Oupa Nick before I can do that.” Regular Autodealer readers will know that Nick de Witt is a crowd favourite wherever he races. He is a gentleman with superb driving skills and is always ready to support everyone else. Jordan loves rap music and has his heart set on becoming a technician.  With horses and racing being such an important pastime for both kids and parents, weekends for the Fourie family are always crowded with activity, but, said Antoinette, “We won’t have it any other way.”