South Africa’s latest lockdown regulations impose serious restrictions on three industries that have already been deeply impacted by Covid-19. The recreation, hospitality, and entertainment industries feature prominently in the newly gazetted regulations that were signed by Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs Minister Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma last night (June 27). Caxton Local Media highlights excerpts relevant to the abovementioned industries. Travel to and from Gauteng Interprovincial travel for leisure to and from Gauteng is prohibited. If you need to travel to Gauteng for other, permitted reasons and need a permit to do so, click here. Accommodation Hotels, lodges, bed and breakfast establishments, timeshare facilities, resorts and guesthouses remain open. However, only 50% of available rooms may be used. Patrons must practice social distancing in common spaces. In as far as dining facilities are concerned, only room service and take-aways are permitted. Dining Restaurants and other in-house dining establishments may only offer take-away or deliveries services. Alcohol The sale, dispensing and distribution of liquor is prohibited, except where alcohol is required for industries producing hand sanitisers, disinfectants, soap, alcohol for industrial use and household cleaning products.Alcohol may be transported for export purposes. Your favourite pub or bar Although taverns, shebeens, pubs, bars, and restaurants may remain open, you can’t go for a drink or bite. They will only be permitted to sell take-away food and non-alcoholic beverages for off-site consumption. A night out? No more… Cinemas, theatres, casinos, and exhibition and entertainment facilities are closed. Night clubs may not operate. Other places closed to the public The regulations indicate that flea markets, fêtes, and bazaars have been banned. Museums, galleries, archives, libraries, and conference facilities are closed. Religious centres may not operate. Visitors are not permitted at older persons’ residential facilities. Sporting Professional and non-professional matches by recognised sporting bodies have not been suspended, but spectators are still not allowed. International sporting events involving countries with low- or medium-Covid-19 infection and transmission rates will proceed. Players, match officials, support staff, medical crew, venue staff, members of the media, and security and emergency medical service crews may attend such matches. Exercise You may still go for a run. Those who do so do not have to wear masks, as long as social distancing is maintained. Gyms and fitness centres are, however, closed.