SANParks’ acting chief executive officer, Dr Luthando Dziba, said a risk-adjusted strategy has been at the core of every sector or industry planning in an effort to save lives. “SANParks, in complying with government regulations, has made amendments particularly for travellers to our national parks from Gauteng Province.” The rules for clients from Gauteng with existing reservations are as follows: ALSO READ: Sting operation sees 21 suspected illegal miners arrested • There will not be a blanket cancellation of bookings for guests residing in Gauteng. Instead, those holding current reservations valid for the period June 28 to July 11 will be contacted directly via telephone and email to establish whether their bookings should be postponed or cancelled.• Guests are encouraged to contact reservations on 012 428 9111 or 082 233 9111 or email reservations@sanparks.org if they are unsure about their current reservation.• Where cancellation is the only option, cancellation fees will not be charged and clients will be provided with the option to claim a full refund or for their deposit to be kept on credit-on-hold for use on future reservations.• Gauteng residents currently in occupation of SANParks accommodation facilities will be permitted to remain in the parks for the duration of their reserved stay as the regulations permit a once-off trip to return to their places of residence to persons who were outside the province when the regulations came into force. ALSO READ: More than 1 030 apprehended in Mpumalanga over the past week Bookings have been suspended for the period of June 28 to July 11, but future booking after this date will be accepted. Persons from any other provinces will still be permitted to enter the parks if they have an existing booking. Speaking for the Kruger National Park, Isaac Phaahla said that guests travelling through Gauteng to get to the park will be allowed entry. As far as the rest of the country’s SANParks are concerned, all gatherings at beaches and picnic sites within the national parks are prohibited. The dining facilities and restaurants within the national parks will operate on the basis of off-site consumption and therefore no sit-down dining will be allowed. More information will be shared on the compliance with the regulations regarding occupancy levels once SANParks has finalised the necessary logistics. ALSO READ: Mataffin residents united against violence Dziba said that while SANParks understands the inconvenience and the frustration this may create, reservations and park teams on the ground are on hand to assist in adherence to the law. Dziba concluded and said the spread of Covid-19 has affected all South Africans and in order to minimise the spread everyone has to make sacrifices. He urged guests to the national parks to appreciate that the regulations and SANParks’ protocols, as inconvenient as they may seem, are towards a greater and common good.