In April, Elize was still a vibrant and active wife, a mother and grandmother, and founder of Banting with Elize, a private group in which she shared all her Banting diet tips and secrets. She soon became immobile due to the rapid spread of cancer that started as a lump in her breast and further spread to the lymph nodes under her arm, her lungs, liver, kidneys and bones. This sadly led to her passing on June 7. “She went for her first course of chemo last Monday. She was in a lot of pain and deteriorated every day. She was put on a morphine syringe driver on Friday evening for pain relief. She became less and less responsive. We were given the sad news on Saturday afternoon that her organs had started shutting down. She sadly passed away at around 11:00 on Monday, in the comfort of her own home, with her loved ones by her side,” her daughter, Chanel Fick, confirmed. In May there was an opportunity for her to go into new clinical trial, but after a consultation her oncologist sadly advised her that her physical state was too weak for her to be accepted. Elize agreed at that time to start chemotherapy in the coming weeks. The estimated cost of Elize’s fight amounted to approximately R600 000. The family needed this to pay the treatment, supplements, medication, travelling costs and medical equipment needed for the home. Elize unfortunately did not have medical aid. Now, after her passing, the family still needs to pay off the bills. “My mum has touched many people’s lives. We want to thank each and every one of you for the donations received thus far; we are truly humbled that there are so many generous people out there. Words cannot express our appreciation,” said Chanel. READ MORE: Siblings exhibit canines and flora To date they have received R56 000, but they ask the community to help them raise the rest of the necessary funds by donating on BackaBuddy page, www.backabuddy.co.za/elize-delport, or by making a donation via EFT to the following bank account: CW Delport, FNB branch code 250655, account number 53131109332. Elize will be dearly missed by her family and Lowveld friends.