It is no secret that several Lowveld organisations such as the SPCA, Hospice, CANSA and many more, are in desperate need of funds, but are willing to go the extra mile to raise funds and keep their doors open.  The basic functioning of these shops is to sell second-hand clothes, household goods and books that are donated by people who do not have any further need for them. This also provides an opportunity for lovers of preloved and vintage items to buy their goods in their own town. All of these organisations are non-profit, non-governmental organisation and receives no financial support from the South African Government. They need the help of the community and encourage members to contact them or support them by buying from them.  Lowvelder visited several of these shops to see how they work. The SPCA works to combat animal cruelty and caring for pets. They rely solely on the community’s support for donations. SPCA Mbombela as well as SPCA White River both has their own charity shops to help them raise funds that they use to buy blankets, food, pay their staff and keeping the kennels clean. They have four shops that you can visit: Contact: manager@wrspca.co.za Contact: hr@wrspca.co.za  Contact: 013-753-3582 or kennels@spcambombela.co.za Contact: 013-753-3582 or shop@spcambombela.co.za   Love from the Attic is a thrift shop located in White River and mostly sells preloved clothing and shoes. Not only do they source vintage clothing for the thrift lovers, but they are a drop-off point for second-hand clothing that then get distributed to churches in the area and the Feed the Need organisation. Contact: 079-039-7282 or lindyloveattic@gmail.com.  Hospice is a non-profit organisation that provides quality home-based palliative care to people with life-threatening illnesses. They have professional nurses, who are palliative care-trained and who provide physical, psycho-social and spiritual support regardless of race, disease, religion or socio-economic situation. They use their funds to ensure that they can continue to take care of our patients and support their families. They have two shops that you can visit: Contact: whiteriverhospice@tiscali.co.za  Enquiries: reception@Mbombelahospice.co.za Ons Winkel is a non-profit organisation started by, Solidarity Helping Hand. This charity shop sells second-hand goods in order to continue helping Solidarity Helping Hand doing charitable work in communities. They use their funds to support families, handing out food parcels to the needy and many more. They have two shops that you can visit: Contact: 083-529- 9167 or cindie4honey@hotmail.com   Contact: annemarie@helpendehand.co.za  CANSA’s mission is to be the preferred non-profit organisation that educates the public and provides support to all people affected by cancer. They host several events in order to raise funds, and the run a charity shop in Mbombela to help out even more. They use their funds to take care of cancer patients, help out with medical bills, and host events where survivors can be celebrated and supported. They have a shop in Mbombela that you can visit:  Contact: 072-611-2305 or pmoller@cansa.org.za  READ MORE: Remember, SPCA accepts all stray or unwanted animals, 24/7 Do you know of an organisation or individual who runs a charity shop to raise funds? Send us an email to: ciska@lowvelder.co.za