It is the first time that an amicable discussion could be held and solutions put on the table.
The current court interdict prohibiting trucks to drive through Lydenburg was not discussed as it quickly led to a point of contention. Erich Johnson, the organiser of the meeting and chairperson of the Badfontein Landowners Association, made it clear that the meeting was convened to get a joint favourable outcome. It took place at the Lewende Woord Church on Wednesday June 9.
The area consists of 508 kilometres of provincial roads frequented by heavy trucks that use it to access the mining belt in Limpopo and Mpumalanga. Erich Johnson further said it was built for a 30-year life span with 30k axles per year. It now carries 600 axles that will result in the road surfaces being used up within two years. The capital cost to upgrade and rehabilitate this span of roads will roughly be R12,5 billion per year. The only way forward is a long-term partnership between mines, transporters and the appropriate roads authorities. Rodney Houston-McMillan (group chief operating officer, Reinhardt Transport Group) said no one has R1,2 billion per month to invest in road maintenance, but a solution is possible if everyone works together for a favourable outcome. “We need to stretch the life of the roads and we understand that the trucks through town are a frustration for Lydenburg residents and the tourists in the area. So should we close the mines and put everyone out of work? We should start fixing smaller areas and all the stakeholders should be willing to come to the party. Reinhardt Transport is willing to make a sizeable contribution if we can get everyone on board to do the same, but that is a goal we will need to discuss at length,” he said. Several stakeholders of Limpopo and Mpumalanga Public Works and Road Agencies also attended the meeting. “The amount needed the fix the 508 kilometres of roads under discussion is much more than the annual budget of the two provinces combined; it will cost about R130 billion to fix and there is already a backlog. If you want to increase tourism, you have to improve the road,” said Gabriel Maluleke of the Limpopo roads agency.
Johnson suggested a short-term project goal should be put in place for emergency repairs and the truck operators and mines agreed to that. A subcommittee will be formed to take all the suggestions into account and identify a possible financial solution to the road crises.