BUSHBUCKRIDGE –  This work of fiction was penned during the country’s lockdown period and published in February. It is one of Malibe’s offerings to end rhino poaching. “The Poacher’s Daughter is a fictitious book and differs from my first two books, which were non-fiction. There was a lot of creativity involved in it,” he said. The book is about the life of a rhino poacher who could not live long because of his lifestyle and how it affected the life of his own daughter. “This book speaks to parents in general, to say that what they do in their community goes on to have an impact on their family. It also speaks to those who fell and thought they could not get up on their feet again. The story of the main character, Mmanaka, proves you can go to hell and come back to life again,” he said. ALSO READ: Top SANParks official back in court on allegations of assault Malibe’s previous books were To the Leader in You, an inspiring letter from a rural boy, and Marry Me Today, Leave Me Tomorrow, which is about the twelve pitfalls that lead to divorce. He is already working on his next book.  “Writing is a calling for me. I’ll keep on writing good books. I already have a complete manuscript for a new book titled I Love Women to be published in February,” Malibe said. He encouraged aspiring authors to never lose hope. “They must invest in education. With an adequate level of education, they’ll be able to research how to get their work published. They must know the cons and pros before they commit themselves. After all, this is a business and just as in any other businesses, there are scavengers out there waiting to feed on your hard work. Do your research well.” He added that challenges faced by authors from disadvantaged communities included lack of self-esteem and coming across those who do not believe in your talent. “To overcome this, you need to work twice as hard and produce good-quality books. You need to believe in yourself.” Malibe expressed his gratitude to Dwarsloop media entrepreneur, Kgoshi Tshwarelo Mogakane of 4IR Publishing Company, for his mentorship and guidance.