Bulelwa Nkosi is an alumni student of Ehlanzeni TVET College, Mlumati Campus. She shared her successful journey of becoming the person she is today. Nkosi attended the college from 2009 to 2011 and registered for a national qualifications framework (NQF) level 2 to 4 in administration and accounting. She expressed her excitement to have enrolled in that field, since the business studies and related programmes offer various opportunities to acquire administrative skills to be used in any organisation or business. “I saw myself working in an office since I grew up. I chose this career path simply because it was going to assist me to look for and acquire relevant skills development and experience,” she said. Nkosi explained that she has been longing to do administrative and accounting work from an early age. She is currently working for Nkomazi Local Municipality as a human resource, skills and development officer. She is also the director of a local business, Ntomfontofo Laundry Services, which started operating in February last year and is the only one in her village. According to Nkosi, her qualification contributes positively to the smooth running of her business and her excelling in her current job. She looks up to Roy Makwakwa, a director of corporate services of the Ehlanzeni District Municipality. “He is the one who convinced me to think big about myself, and to set a focus that would determine my destiny.”Nkosi said Mlumati Campus has lecturers that give their all for teaching and educating, and they strongly believe that education is power. Nkosi said she was motivated by her former lecturer, Mr Khumalo, to leave a mark in everything she does. She believes she is where she is simply because of those words. Zanele Sibiya is an award-winning graduate from the Ehlanzeni TVET College. She shared her journey, from enrolling in the college to graduating and taking her first steps in her chosen career, and being all the better prepared. According to Sibiya, she obtained her first qualification in 2013, a NQF level 4 in generic management. She furthered her studies in public management (N6) in 2015 at the Barberton campus. Her qualifications played a vigorous role in her career path, since she is currently working as a sales consultant, attending to clients and dealing in finances at ABSA Bank in Komatipoort. Sibiya indicated that in her career path, it is important to be cautious when communicating with clients, colleagues and external people. She added that these were not new to her due to her qualifications and primary experience. Sibiya explained that she had started as an intern at the bank for seven months before being permanently absorbed, and she has since improved her skills within the field of her career. She also said she was inspired by those whom she saw working at certain other banks; the formal way they dressed and the working environment inside the banks contributed to her inspiration. She proceeded to briefly share her background and said her colleague, Simphiwe Sifunda, a relationship executive of the bank, motivated her. Sifunda has been in most of the departments within the industry; he was a bank teller, sales consultant and small business manager, and is currently a relationship executive. Sibiya also indicated that she is looking forward to being in the top position and have her own financial solutions company. She expressed that the college has contributed positively to their studies since study materials were first provided to them, and when they were taken into various fields for practicals. She indicated that her lecturers were supportive and always available to aid her and her fellow students through academic difficulties. Sibiya mentioned that each year the college hosted an academic day on which guest speakers were invited to motivate students and reward them for greater participation; she never missed making the list of those excelling or being rewarded. “The college has rewarded me with a laptop and a tablet in 2015 for obtaining position one in all the campuses.”She went on to encourage prospective students not to hesitate to enrol with the college, since it is a world-class one that provides quality vocational training and is committed to creating a quality teaching and learning environment.   