The High Court of South Africa’s Mpumalanga Division sentenced two members of a community policing forum (CPF) to 25 years imprisonment for murder. They were further sentenced to an additional seven years imprisonment for attempted murder. Abel Mamba (45) and Sibusiso Mkhabela (32) were convicted on charges of murder and attempted murder. Their co-accused, Sizakale Goodness Mashaba (29), died before she could serve her sentence. On January 30, 2019, the community of Schoemansdal accused the victims’ family of witchcraft. These allegations were reported to the police and the ward councillor. Meetings were convened and the community decided that the family must be expelled. ALSO READ: Senior advocate deems attack on him ‘a hit’ On the day in question the victims, Lucky Bhekumuzi Mokoena and Mzamo Johnson Lobi, returned to their house. The court heard that on their arrival, they were confronted by the three guilty people and other community members. Mokoena and Lobi were severely assaulted with a shovel, kicked and beaten. Mokoena was then set alight with a tyre and petro He died on the scene. Lobi sustained serious injuries. An eyewitness reported the matter to the police and the three were arrested. During their trial they denied their involvement in the crime, but the state advocate, Tula Bekwa, led with testimonies of several witnesses. In their evidence, they said they all knew the perpetrators as CPF members from the same neighbourhood. ALSO READ: Penryn preschoolers invite parents to join them Another witness testified that he blew a whistle to alert the community members of the incident. He added that he was able to see everything as he was hiding behind a backyard fence and was able to give a clear account of incidents. Their testimonies collaborated the evidence of a police officer who had attended the crime scene. Acting Judge Johanna Mthimunye ordered the sentences to run concurrently; they will serve an effective sentence of 25 years each. Monica Nyuswa, regional spokesperson for the Director of Public Prosecutions, said, “The National Prosecution Authority commended the passion portrayed by the investigating team and the prosecution in delivering justice to the victims of crime,” she concluded