Residents have started to dread weekends. The noise pouring out of local establishments until the early hours of the morning has become unbearable for many residents. The frustration caused by authorities seeming reluctant to tackle the problem head-on, sent many to social media to air their dismay. But it is not only the noise that concerns residents. On May 30, President Cyril Ramaphosa announced that the country would move to adjusted alert level 2 of lockdown, effective May 31. This means that all restaurants have to close by 22:00. Up to now, curfews were simply ignored. As we are facing a third wave of Covid-19 infections, these superspreader events can be detrimental to the entire community. As a last resort, Cllr Tersia Marshall is now driving a campaign in which residents will be asked to sign a petition to force authorities to act. Three petitions have been set up. Marshall explained how the petition to fight against noise pollution will work, here. ALSO READ: Noise complainants crank up the volume One petition names The Prestige Lifestyle Grand, the other Coyotes Lounge and the third Coyotes Pub & Shisa Nyama. These establishments were filmed over the weekend, with their activities still going strong after the midnight curfew, Covid-19 regulations thrown out the window. The police were present at The Prestige (where News Café was previously located), but seemed to have no effect on the ongoing party. Brig Leonard Hlathi, provincial police spokesperson, told Lowvelder previously that the police go to these scenes to gather evidence and not necessarily to end a get-together. ALSO READ: WATCH: Elephant shows bakkie who’s boss in the bush It is as yet unclear whether this process of evidence-gathering has led to any further steps being taken. The police had not responded to the newspaper’s latest queries by the time of going to press. Marshall said she wanted to make it clear that she does not wish for any business to close its doors. “All we want is that these establishments operate within the boundaries of the law and not to the detriment of the surrounding community. Just be compliant.” Marshall herself had started a petition previously, but this was before the municipal by-laws had been promulgated. Involved parties will be able to use this new petition in court should it come to that. That will be the next step if the authorities responsible do not act against the ongoing situation. ALSO READ: More dark deals on high-mast lights? The plan is to get street representatives to go door to door to collect signatories. Members of the community interested in getting involved can mail Marshall on tmarshall33@icloud.com. Joseph Ngala, spokesperson for the City of Mbombela Local Municipality, said, “As indicated in the municipality’s previous responses, the City conducts unannounced joint operations at establishments around the city in all four regions, not only Coyotes and Prestige, as they are not the only contributors of noise pollution.” “Since our operation in May, for the past two weeks we have observed an improvement by most in the level of noise and we will continue to monitor progress.” Ngala said, however, that it seemed most of the recent complaints related to Covid-19 regulations and not noise. “We can confirm that a number of establishments have been charged, including Coyotes and Prestige,” he said.