The UMP spokesperson, Tlangelani Ubisi, said KaBokweni and Top Star taxi associations had intimidated both university staff and students and the institution is unable to function as usual due to the protests. “The UMP management held talks with the two associations on June 8 and 9. Both meetings were facilitated by the SAPS,” said Ubisi. “In both meetings, university management repeatedly conveyed the message that UMP is neither responsible for transporting students nor is the university provided with funding for this responsibility. ALSO READ: Alleged rhino poaching kingpin ‘Mr Big’ shot and killed in Hazyview “Unfortunately there was no resolution reached with KaBokweni and Top Star, because while the meeting was still on, a group of members belonging to both taxi associations stormed into the venue and disrupted the proceedings. Therefore, the meeting was stopped without any resolution and/or agreement being reached.” When asked if the talks between the university and the associations would continue this week, Ubisi said, “Regrettably, the taxi associations walked out of the talks and as things stand, there is a stalemate.” ALSO READ: Police launch manhunt for ‘Mr Big’s’ killers He said these associations are responsible for the illegal blockages and disruption of the UMP activities. “The management is deeply concerned with the conduct of the two associations, because instead of continuing with the talks, they opted to walk out and use underhanded tactics such as blocking the institution’s gates while exams were in progress on June 14. “Sadly, the university is not functioning as usual. Due to the ongoing blockages and intimidation of our staff and students by the taxi associations, a decision was taken to cancel the mid-year examinations at the Mbombela Campus. ALSO READ: Another CIT heist sees armoured car being bombed “The July recess that was to start on July 5 was brought forward to commence on Tuesday June 15.” Ubisi said the university was unable to operate on June 8 following the blockade of access by KaBokweni and Top Star. “However, UMP was able to continue with its online activities and virtual engagements.” Top Star Taxi Association’s chairperson, John Mavundla, confirmed there had been no resolution between the university and the associations. ALSO READ: Inspiring a community of young plant lovers Mavundla said the associations had urged UMP to talk to the bodies in charge of the private transportation of students from their accommodation to the institution, but to no avail. He said the associations would go back to the university on June 28. “We are not going to block the road again, but we will be right outside the entrance. We hope that we can all come to some sort of agreement,” Mavundla said.