Lowveld resident An’tjie Bornman will from now on be travelling in her brand-new Polo Vivo that she won in Mopani Pharmacy’s Win a Car Competition recently. Twenty competition finalists were invited to Alan Hudson Motors last Thursday. Mopani said the finalists were drawn and notified during the last week of May and the draw was overseen by an independent auditor. ALSO READ: Petition intends to make R40 safer with traffic-calming measures However, when the finalists were invited to Alan Hudson, three of them could not be reached in time, and only 17 finalists made it to the big day. The finalists were eliminated through a series of rounds. During the first round of elimination, the finalists each received a Mopani gift bag containing a USB memory stick that was either red or blue. ALSO READ: Top SANParks official back in court on allegations of assault Those with blue USBs proceeded to the next round. The top ten then each drew a silver box containing a keyring that was either red or blue. The five with the blue keyrings proceeded to the final round. Each person was given a car key that would fit in the ignition, but only one key would start the vehicle. The first two people had their chance and unfortunately did not have the car-starting key. When Bornman’s time arrived, she sunk into the car seat and with the flick of her wrist, started it. Spectators cheered as Bornman revved the car several times before testing out the hooter. ALSO READ: Off-road bikers rev into action As she stepped out of her new vehicle, she said she had a feeling she was going to win from the moment Mopani SMSed that she was a finalist in the competition. “I called Mopani after I received the SMS and told them they should just give me the keys now, because I knew I was going to win,” said Bornman with a laugh. “I never win anything, I can’t even win an argument!” Mopani Pharmacy’s CEO, Rob Gibbs, thanked each customer who entered the competition. “Your support means a great deal to us. We are extremely excited to be able to give something back to our community, and would like to extend a heartfelt congratulations to our winner, An’tjie Bornman,” he said.