While South Africa’s latest lockdown regulations have again limited South Africans’ right to come and go as they please, they have been implemented to help curb the rapidly rising Covid-19 infection rate. While South Africa’s latest lockdown regulations have again limited South Africans’ right to come and go as they please, they have been implemented to help curb the rapidly rising Covid-19 infection rate. In terms of the regulations published in the Government Gazette yesterday (June 27), following President Cyril Ramaphosa’s national address people now need permits to work after 21:00. Permits are also needed to travel to or from Gauteng to attend a loved one’s funeral. Non-compliance with the adjusted alert level 4 regulations may result in wrongdoers being fined or sent to jail for six months. Covid-19 protocols Masks or suitable cloths that cover mouths and noses must be worn in public, with the exception of children under six years of age. People must frequently sanitise and wash their hands. Social distancing remains compulsory. Curfews and permits Everyone must be indoors between 04:00 and 21:00 and businesses must close at 20:00. However, if you are attending to a security or medical emergency, you may be exempted from this rule. Holders of the permit below, as issued by their employers, may also conduct their duties between 21:00 and 04:00. (Note, use the same permit for travel to and from Gauteng for work. This is discussed below.)  Anyone who needs to travel to or from an airport to catch (or return home after) a flight, may travel between 21:00 and 04:00 if their boarding pass provides proof that it is necessary. Interprovincial travel for leisure to and from Gauteng is prohibited. When is interprovincial travel to and from Gauteng allowed?    International travel The 33 land border posts that have been closed throughout lockdown level 3 will remain closed, while the other 20 will remain open. Five airports will be open for international travel, with standard infection control measures in place. These are OR Tambo, Cape Town, King Shaka, Kruger Mpumalanga and Lanseria airports. The regulations state that all international travellers arriving at these airports must provide a certificate indicating that they had tested negative for Covid-19 in the 72 hours prior to their departure. People who cross our land borders daily for work or school must undergo screening and, if necessary, quarantine or isolation. They must wear face masks, sanitise and adhere to social distancing rules. Click here to access the latest lockdown regulations. The regulations conclude with a list of activities that are specifically excluded from what we may do during lockdown. 