Choose the best medical aid With a multitude of medical schemes in South Africa, choosing the right medical cover can be a daunting exercise.If you get stuck, it may be best to seek advice from a professional independent financial adviser specialising in healthcare. These professionals are able to understand your unique healthcare requirements and provide you with unbiased advice, because they are not paid to promote only one company’s products.Before making a final decision, make sure you understand your medical scheme and its benefit options. Read the membership brochures and look into the scheme rules. What do you need from your cover?Make time to reflect on your specific healthcare requirements. A family with young children has very different medical needs from a single person or a retired couple. Make sure your medical cover is a good match for the health conditions you are likely to experience to the best of your knowledge. Be aware of any exclusions and limitsChanging from one medical aid to another may leave you without cover for certain conditions for a limited period of time. Be aware of these possible exclusions before signing on the dotted line. Is the medical scheme financially secure?Before selecting a particular medical scheme, ensure that it is financially sound. According to legislation, schemes should have at least 25% of members’ annual contributions in reserve.  ‘n Paar geldlesse wat vir verskillende ouderdomme gepas is en wat ouers hulle kinders kan leer, word uitgelig. Hulle kan dit regdeur hul lewens toepas. • Ouderdom 3-6: Hallo geld!Leer jou kinders om hul impulsiwiteit deur die robotstelsel te beheer – ‘n eenvoudige “dink voordat jy doen”-begrip. • Ouderdom 6-10: Haai groot besteder!Op hierdie ouderdom is dit tyd om jou kinders die waarde van geld en die begrip van verdien te leer. • Ouderdom 11-13: Dit gaan alles oor gevolgeNamate kinders tieners word, begin hulle ‘n sin van onafhanklikheid, redeneervermoë, en ‘nbesef van die langtermyngevolge van hul besluite ontwikkel. • Ouderdom 13-15: Skep welvaartbouersSkerp die finansiële gewoontes en begrippe van verdien, spaar en belegging, deel en besteding in.• Ouderdom 15-18: Voorbereiding vir die werklike wêreldTeen dié tyd behoort kinders ‘n sterk fondament van finansiële geletterdheid te hê. Ouers behoort hul kinders van slegte skuld te leer en waarom dit beter is om te spaar as om ‘n kredietkaart te bekom of lenings vir onvoorsiene uitgawes aan te gaan. Kontak Annatjie Els by 013-880-0061 of 083-679-4697 vir professionele advies. Sanlam is ‘n gelisensieerde finansiële diensteverskaffer.