In a shocking turn of events, a man who appeared in court last week for the assault of a Waterval Boven policewoman, was arrested yesterday for alleged fraudulent credit card transactions at the Machado Toll Plaza. The team swooped into Waterval Boven yesterday afternoon to arrest Mbongiseni Kenneth Madonsela (27), who was apparently employed as a general worker at the municipal offices in town. Madonsela allegedly colluded with Qwebu by reportedly supplying her with fraudulently obtained company credit cards from different banks to enable unlawful transactions. ALSO READ: Toll gate operator is in court for credit card fraud The Mpumalanga Hawks spokesperson, Capt Dineo Lucy Sekgotodi, said the modus operandi of the operation was Qwebu would offer to swipe the card on behalf of motorists who then made cash payments at the toll gate which she then allegedly pocketed. “One of the banks initiated an internal audit that established illegal transactions were taking place at the said toll gate. More than R100 000 has reportedly been lost through similar transactions linked to the pair,” said Sekgotodi. “Following Qwebu’s arrest she recently appeared in the Belfast Magistrate’s Court and was released on R1 000 bail.” ALSO READ: Waterval Boven ANC councillor in court for alleged attack on policewoman Qwebu and Madonsela both appeared at the Belfast Magistrates Court on Wednesday for fraud. Madonsela was released on R1000 bail and the case was postponed to April 21, 2021 for further investigation. Madonsela is also expected to appear in the Waterval Boven Magistrate’s Court on April 7 for trial following the assault of a policewoman. It was alleged that the police officer was attacked by seven men, including Madonsela and an ANC councillor, Themba Nelson Masha, who also resides in town. ALSO READ: Councillor owes R40k in utility bills Masha appeared in court twice last Wednesday on two different cases of assault, one regarding a policewoman, and the other regarding a civilian from 2018. He appeared with his six co-accused, Vincent Mazibuko, Comfort Mashele, Sibusiso Tshehla, Siphamandla Stanley Sekwane, Phorano Dawti Masha and Kenneth Mbongiseni Madonsela on Wednesday morning, however, the case was postponed for trial to April 7. Talking to Lowvelder outside the Waterval Boven Magistrate’s Court last week on behalf of the seven accused, the attorney, Themba Mkhwanazi, said they would be contesting the matter and that the assault did not happen. He said according to the J88 form, the policewoman did not have any physical injuries following the alleged attack. “If she had been attacked by those men with open hand slapping, closed fists and kicking, why are there no injuries?” asked Mkhwanazi. When asked why the case would have been reported if an assault did not occur, Masha responded that the charge was “politically motivated”. ALSO READ: Mbombela’s adjusted budget raises eyebrows