Sheldon Hooper (27) was killed at the River Lodge, located in the greater Kruger National Park, when an elephant cow charged at him last August. Hooper and a colleague were busy with a routine fence inspection when a herd of elephants entered the area, despite anti-elephant electric fencing surrounding the area. Hooper was stormed by an elephant that pierced him with its tusk before trampling him. By the time paramedics arrived, Hooper was already dead. At the time, a preliminary investigation was done by Thornybush Luxury Game Lodge Collection, that managed safari operations at the lodge, which found that Hooper’s death was an accident. ALSO READ: Elephant kills River Lodge guide An independent wildlife and intelligence investigation by the anti-poaching unit, Protrack, was then commissioned, also by Thornybush. This was completed in November and found no transgressions. However, the findings in this investigation left many questions unanswered, which led the Hooper family to enlist Specialised Security Services (SSS). “The family is concerned that there is possibly foul play. That could mean anything from the authorities’ side or those who were present that day. We as specialist investigators into serious violent crimes need to look at all aspects,” said Mike Bolhuis, private investigator and owner of SSS. Thornybush Nature Reserve CEO and head game ranger Trevor Jordan said they welcome this third investigation. “We have nothing to hide and we also want to know what led to this tragedy.” “The main goal of this investigation is to bring about a formal judicial inquest,” said Vince Harris, the SSS investigator leading the Hooper case. “It maybe is manslaughter. A magistrate will then be brought and witnesses will be called. “The other goal is to spread awareness so that all owners of nature reserves begin to implement change. This is not the first incident like this.” ALSO READ: Sand miners continue their illegal activities Hooper was checking electric fences at the time of his death, which SSS also stated was not part of his job, as he was not an electrician. Jordan labelled Hooper’s death as an accident. “In nature and in wildlife we have these accidents. Sadly, this was just that: an accident. It can only be that.” SSS does not agree with this statement. “This was not an accident,” said Harris. “Certain things that could have prevented his death were not done. Only after his death did they begin to install and update certain security measures.” Bolhuis and Harris said no further information regarding the investigation would be given at this time.