South Africa’s property industry continues to weather the “post-pandemic” storm, with great strides made in various market segments. At the heart of this steady property market, lies key industry leaders like Private Property who have consistently played an integral role in connecting industry players and providing a platform through which property practitioners can learn, connect and collaborate with one another to achieve success in a tough market. One flagship event which has been innovatively and strategically designed to achieve this, is Nexus, a property connection and networking event, taking place from Monday to Thursday, 15 – 18 March 2021. Nexus is a series of exclusive and interactive online events, hosted by Private Property in partnership with South Africa’s banking industry leader, Absa. The event will see property professionals from across the industry converge to explore the latest national and regional property market trends and insights, participate in live polls and Q&A sessions and explore unique opportunities for growth in the current market. To start each session, Absa will share valuable property insights from a national and regional market perspective along with interesting home loan application statistics, current trends in “post-pandemic” customer behaviour and where market opportunities could lie. Following this, PayProp CEO, Jan Davel and Head of Data & Analytics, Johette Smuts will discuss how the average rent, inflation & arrears shifted during 2020, along with a sneak peek at PayProp’s State of the Rental Market Survey results before their release next quarter. The future of the rental sector will also be explored, including how the Property Practitioner’s Act could affect rental agency payments when regulations are passed. Thereafter, Private Property Business Development Executive, Carl Van Den Berg will take the stage to share what the future holds for the Private Property brand and provide a glimpse into what true industry partnership might look like going forward: technology-enabled and human empowered, but always with the customer need in mind. This is an event you cannot afford to miss. Registration is quick, easy and FREE. Register and earn valuable CPD points for attending. https://www.privatepropertynexus.co.za. For more information please contact trishg@privateproperty.co.za. The article is provided by Private Property.