In 1990 the school saw him enter as a young woodwork teacher facing the daunting task of teaching a matric class. In 2021 that very same school now welcomes him back to lead educators and learners alike through the coming year and beyond. As a child he spent some years in Laerskool Malelane as well as Laerskool Bergland, and completed his high school career at Hoërskool Nelspruit. ALSO READ: SANParks praises its rangers and the National Prosecuting Authority for successful convictions During his years away from Lowveld High, Krüger spent time teaching at Hoërskool Nelspruit, had a brief stint at Uplands College and most recently was deputy principal at Hoërskool Bergvlam. He has also ventured into the private sector previously, but came back to live out his passion for education. He expressed his gratitude towards the educators that have crossed his path both as a learner and a teacher, and said the lessons learned from them had been invaluable. He made specific note of his time at Bergvlam. “I had wonderful headmasters there that were very supportive and always looking forward in one’s occupation and how you can grow and step up to the next level. Those are exactly the qualities I am bringing here.” Recognising the experiences he had and the road he followed are vital to him. ALSO READ: DA unhappy with Budget Speech “There are always lessons to be learned. Not everything is always positive and negative, but that is not the point. The point is you have to learn and develop from there.” Commenting on his time spent as an educator and what kept him in the profession, Krüger said it might sound like a bit of a cliché, but he has had this lifelong philosophy of serving. The example his own teachers had set him had a lot to do with his decision. Being “able to observe and experience at the same time the impact that you can have on someone’s life; shaping them and putting them in a better position than what they started in” was something that stood out to him. “My whole ambition as far as education is concerned is basically focused on serve and need. Just to develop and have a positive impact on people’s lives. Leave them with something special so they can grow from it and feel a sense of security and belonging – those are the things that are important.” He was welcomed back by familiar and unfamiliar faces alike. Although there was an initial hint of surprise and uncertainty, he said since his arrival he has been met with nothing but “absolute welcome and support from the staff”. ALSO READ: Growsmart Educational Programme kick-starts in Steelpoort “Personally, I believe this is a fantastic challenge. And the fact that I have been approached shows a great deal of trust that has been bestowed in my ability to come and be the stabilising factor. Note that I am not using the word ‘change agent’ because that is not what I am. “I am here to serve, and it did not take any hesitation to answer the call. As an educator at heart, I believe in stability and security. I believe in absolute trust. And if I look back on my career, those were the exact aspects that I learned as a young apprentice teacher here at Lowveld High. I had a wonderful experience with a number of people.” He remembers one distinct lesson: “‘You never pass the buck.’ And from that I gathered an extreme sense of ownership and responsibility.” ALSO READ: Gundle has the reliable products and services you need He said his way forward for the school is simple. It has a proud legacy built on history and traditions. “The notion of late is to try and ignore the past and focus on the current and the future, but we have learned so many lessons from the past. “If you have a tool to work with like the fantastic history of this wonderful institution, then you must embrace that; see how it has developed, appreciate it and use the legacy of those before you to guide you in the current position and the future. ALSO SEE: IN PHOTOS: Ehlanzeni District’s Department of Education hosts its annual awards “I believe one must seize the opportunity of a collective resolve of issues and one of those cornerstones would be trust, but more so than anything else, respect. Respect for one another. It starts there and is the beginning and the end-all of the whole process. “This is way too big to try and bring personal aspirations and pride to the front. It has got nothing to do with the individual itself, but everything with the position and the job at hand and the work that needs to be done.” Listening to Krüger, the Home of the Blues is ready for what the future holds. “My message to you is we are on the right track. This is a position that needed to be filled and I was fortunate enough to be that person to be selected and I feel secure in the knowledge that I have the support of the staff.”