Makhosazane Christine Masilela has been elected as the new Speaker of the Mpumalanga Provincial Legislature. She was the former chairperson of the portfolio committee for human settlements and cooperative governance and traditional affairs, and was also the deputy chief of the provincial ANC. James Jim “JJ” Skosana has returned to the provincial legislature as a Deputy Speaker. He was previously the provincial ANC’s chief whip. The two were elected at the legislature chamber on Tuesday. This followed the resignation of both the former Speaker, Busisiwe Shiba and Deputy Speaker, Vusi Mkhatshwa. This is in terms of Section 111(1) of the Constitution of RSA (filling of vacancies). The election was presided by Judge President Malesela Francis Legodi as designated by the chief justice of of South Africa, Mogoeng Mogoeng, in terms of section 111(2) of the Constitution. During her acceptance speech Masilela said, “We commit to hit the ground running and take this legislature to greater heights. As per our oath, we have undertaken to be loyal to the Constitution of the republic and serve our people with honour, respect, dignity and honesty”. Skosana said the legislature shall remain truthful in its mandate. “The mandate that is to provide oversight public participation and lawmaking,” he said. They both said they look forward to working with all honourable members and to provide necessary support where needed. The EFF’s Collen Sidibe said on behalf of the party he congratulates Masilela on her new responsibility. “I assure you that the work of the legislature will continue as normal, as long as you are impartial in discharging your duties. There will be no crisis or destruction because we must co-exist, especially as the legislature, because our role is to hold the executive accountable at all times. We must make sure that every expense is accounted for,” he said. ALSO READ: Valencia Combined School matric pass rate improves Jane Sithole of the DA said, “It is a pleasure to congratulate you, I have worked with you in the social cluster since the beginning of this term so I know your work. As the DA we can say, as long as the rules of this house are implemented as they should, you can rest assured of our support,” she said. ALSO READ: Murder in suburbia – elderly West Acres couple attacked Werner Ludolf Weber of the FF Plus congratulated Masilela. “I have known you for the past two years as we worked on the same committees. You were always there. I always view you as an honest and hard-working person. I believe you are capable to execute this high office with distinction. I also congratulate Skosana,” he said.