Private Property’s innovative Sherlock Homes Competition is well underway, with thousands of people joining in the hunt every week. Hosted by South Africa’s leading property website, Private Property, Sherlock Homes offers property enthusiasts the opportunity to win R5000 a week in prizes, as well as a R30 000 Grand Prize voucher towards their dream home makeover. “The South African property market has been affected adversely in the economic crisis triggered by the Covid-19 Pandemic,” says Tracey Lee Miller, Brand and Marketing Executive at Private Property. “However, despite the instability of the market, property remains one of the most robust investments that an ordinary South African can make in the long-term. “As South Africa is in its lowest interest rate environment and the Government has alleviated transfer duties for properties under R1 million, the affordable property market is especially attractive at the moment. Through Sherlock Homes, we aim to reach consumers who might not believe that they can afford to invest in property and expose them to opportunities that might surprise them,” she says. With just 4 weeks to go until the grand prize winner is announced, the competition is heating up. To enter, consumers must solve riddles and search through Private Property listings in the quest to find a hidden key that unlocks incredible weekly prizes. Riddles are released every week on the Private Property website and social media platforms, with clues pointing to a specific area/suburb on the company’s website. Once the area has been deciphered, property hunters must search through Private Property listings to find the home with the hidden key. Each person who finds the hidden key will be entered into a lucky draw to win weekly prizes valued at R5000 each. They will also automatically be entered into the Grand Prize draw, where they stand a chance to win a R30 000 voucher towards their dream home makeover. To find out if you are the lucky winner – tune in to the weekly Private Property Podcast every Friday at 7pm. “Through this initiative, we not only want to offer consumers a reward, but to give them the reassurance and tools they need to take the next bold step on their property journey,” Miller adds. The article was provided by Private Property.