The Meyer Beukes Warriors on Wheels Foundation has a waiting list of 58 children, of which 11 are local and 47 spread out around South Africa. “It has become a passion for us to reach out to disadvantaged families with special needs children. We assist children with a range of disabilities and are the only producers and providers of the mini wheelchair in South Africa,” said Kylah Beukes, founder and owner of the foundation.  The foundation calls on local businesses and organisations to change the life of at least one child living with disability. “We would like to urge those who can to help. Even simply sponsoring enough funds for equipment for one child can help,” Beukes said. There are different options for varying disabilities, such as reverse walkers, mini wheelchairs, paediatric wheelchairs and standing frames. The price range of these are anywhere around R1 600 to R20 000. Beukes’ son, Meyer, was born with spina bifida, a congenital neural tube defect resulting in the incomplete closing of the spinal cord and membranes around the spinal cord. Associated problems include poor ability to walk (sometimes complete inability), problems with bladder or bowel control, hydrocephalus and a tethered spinal cord. He is a paraplegic. “As Meyer grew older, we realised the need to provide him with a mobility device that will allow him to explore his world, move around without being dependent on us and to keep up with his peers,” she said. At this explorative age, he was still too small for a paediatric wheelchair and the Beukes family heard of a device called the ZipZac, produced and sold in America. Unfortunately, it comes with a price tag ranging from R18 000 to R25 000 per chair. Meyer’s occupational therapist immediately saw the benefits of the chair and approached her father, a retired engineer, to attempt to build one. Needless to say, it was a great success! “We realised there was a great need to help children with disabilities from underprivileged families. We endured and saw a great volume of heartache, poverty and desperation in the hospitals and became aware of the many families with special needs children that do not have the means to provide for their children with all the necessary devices, therapy and support they need,” Beukes explained. “As such, Antonie and I decided to register this non-profit organisation, which aims to assist underprivileged families with mobility aids and care packages to improve the lives of their disabled children. We make use of GL Accounting services for our bookkeeping. “We have written consent from ZipZac America to make our prototype mini wheelchairs for non-profit purposes.” Warriors on Wheels later expanded its cause by donating standing frames, paediatric wheelchairs and reverse walkers to disabled children as well. “Further to this we also assist families with the endless medical bills and specialist consultation fees involved in raising a child with special needs as well as donating healthcare and basic needs packages to mothers and children enduring long hospital stays far from home,” Beukes said. The care packages for the mothers contain toiletries and basic food produce, as hospitals do not cater to their needs when their children are hospitalised. Very often these mothers have to take unpaid leave to be with their children in hospital or some are not even employed as they need to be full-time caregivers to their special needs children.  “Over the years we have formed a significant network of paediatric nurses and therapists practising countrywide who assist us in identifying children in need. The majority of the therapists are working in rural clinics and government hospitals. We would love to expand our search for children and families in need, but our current funds limit us. The need for our devices are endless.” The Beukes family have been running the organisation with donations from small private companies and individuals who have opened their hearts to the cause. “We believe in giving individual feedback to each and every person that donates towards the foundation as it is important for us that donors can see the difference and impact they are making in the lives of others. As such, we provide our sponsors with photographs, video clips and personal details of each child that has benefited from Warriors on Wheels,” Beukes explained. ALSO READ: PCA thanks all involved for successful aid mission “We have also received help from Bumbo South Africa who have generously donated Bumbo chairs for two years running. These donations have greatly assisted us to bring down the cost price per chair. “We have received funding from the local Giving Back 2 Our Community (GB2C), initiated by Nelspruit Crossing Centre some two years ago, which has supported Warriors on Wheels since it was established in 2019. Several other local businesses form part of GB2C, namely BUCO Nelspruit, the Omar Family, the Tom le Roux Family, Crossing SUPERSPAR, MICA Nelspruit and the Visagie Group, among others.” The Meyer Beukes Warriors on Wheels Foundation took part in the Jacaranda Spring Walk 2015 to raise awareness of the organisation and children with disabilities. They also had the privilege to appear on kykNET’s Kwela to further promote the foundation. ALSO READ: Nelsville community clean-up by the DA If you would like to make a donation or provide help, phone Beukes on 082-547-8815 or send an email to info@warriorsonwheels.co.za. Alternatively visit the Meyer Beukes Warriors on Wheels Foundation’s Facebook page.