The bloody attack occurred in the early hours of this morning in a house in Geelhout Street, a few metres from Hoërskool Bergvlam. The couple had reportedly recently sold their home in Gqeberha (formerly Port Elizabeth) and moved with all their furniture and belongings to Mbombela on January 15.  The couple’s landlord, who asked not to be named for fear of possible future victimisation by criminals operating in the area, said he had heard screaming at around 04:00, but had thought the noise was coming from across the road. “About 10 minutes after I heard the screaming, my phone rang and it was my tenant. She said, ‘I think my husband is dead. Please help me!'” The landlord said when he had entered the house, he was met with “an absolutely horrendous scene. She was lying in the hallway. There was so much blood everywhere”. According to Bossies Community Justice (BCJ), the couple’s home had been broken into by three suspects. The police, BCJ, Hi-Tech Security and Divergent Ops were all on the scene after the attack had been reported. ALSO READ: March is Human Rights month; do you know your rights? When Lowvelder arrived at the scene this morning, forensics were already inside the house looking at evidence and documenting it. The entrance to the home had been cordoned off with police tape and traffic drove past slowly, peering curiously at the house. The landlord told the newspaper the elderly woman appeared to have been stabbed multiple times in the legs. “I heard the screaming, but I didn’t know it was her. If I had gone out and looked, would I have been attacked and killed? “They only moved into the property on January 15, but they were such friendly and gentle people. They were always so welcoming and often invited me to sit outside with them and chat on their stoep. “I am so very sad,” said the landlord. “It is difficult to try and make sense of such brutality. The Vets@66 helped us with their little 14-year-old doggie, Midget. They took her in, gave her a bath and something to calm her down to let her sleep for a while. ALSO READ: Lowveld dam levels continue to rise “They will keep her with them at no costs at all. The community came together and is so helpful; we are so grateful for that.” The couple may not be named at this time, until the family of the deceased have been formally notified. Other residents living in and around Geelhout Street, who asked not to be named, said they had also had break-ins as recently as last Thursday. “The crime in this area is extensive,” said one of the residents outside the Geelhout property, talking to the police when this reporter arrived. “The area we are in is so dark, none of the street lights work, and the the grass around the creek opposite Geelhout has become a safe haven for criminals. “Last Thursday, a man broke into my home and stole my laptop. I tried to chase him, but I lost him in the tall grass.” ALSO READ: Valencia Combined School matric pass rate improves Another resident said they had also been broken into on January 22. The man sent the newspaper CCTV images of the man who had broken into his house. The incident also occurred at around 04:30. “When there are burglaries and robberies in the area, they usually seem to happen on a Thursday between 03:30 and 04:30. Once I arrived home from work at 02:00 there was a car parked near the grassy area, with some men just sitting inside. “I didn’t want to approach them. I am not a policeman or security officer, but it was very suspicious that they were just parked there,” he said. The spokesperson for Mediclinic Nelspruit, Robyn Baard, confirmed that the widow had been admitted to the hospital. “Obviously the patient is traumatised, but she is in a stable condition and will be going into theatre today.” This is a developing story and will be updated as more information is received.