“There is no way we can ever express the extent of our gratitude and appreciation towards Norman de Bruyn for leaving us a legacy enabling us to purchase a much-needed, vital vehicle for our inspectorate.” De Bruyn left the SPCA R100 000 in early February. After the death of his beloved dog Peppie, he just did not feel up to getting another pet because of how traumatic Peppie’s death had been. He had a great love for animals, though, and would from time to time donate dog food to the SPCA. ALSO READ: Wildlife rehab warns not to handle grounded owlets The organisation said this donation will enable them to assist animals in remote areas, rough terrain and even in areas outside of its official area of operation. “We can now do so much more, we can change so much more for the better, we can make so much more happen.  “We wish that we could thank Oom Norman personally. We wish that we could show him how his contribution will change our lives and the fate of so many animals. But we think he knew.” The organisation wanted to thank the following parties for their assistance with the new vehicle • NJR Steel • Arrow Group • Polyguard • Hi-Q • PSG Wealth Nelspruit • Midfeeds Nelspruit. The SPCA wanted to take this opportunity to remind its loyal supporters that they could remember the organisation in their wills. ALSO READ: SANParks Honorary Rangers ready for the year ahead “One of the easiest ways to ensure that animals are protected in years to come is to include Nelspruit SPCA as a beneficiary in your will. If you decide to make or update your will and are kind enough to remember the Nelspruit SPCA, we thank you.” A bequest is simply a gift of money or property left to a person or organisation after death. The SPCA said a bequest can take many forms and did not necessarily need to take the form of a monetary donation. It could be any of the following • A specific sum of money • Specific items • A percentage of your estate • The residue of your estate • A life insurance policy. “It is preferable that your will does not specify a restriction as to how the funds should be used. Instead, we ask that you allow the Nelspruit SPCA to decide how your gift will best protect animals in need, at the time it is received.”