The students who are part of the Energy and Water Sector Education Training Authority (EWSETA) apprenticeship say their programme is still failing them. Collen Nkosi, the students’ representative, said they are expected to work on sewage without proper personal protective equipment (PPE) or proper tools, and their outstanding payment issue has not been resolved. These students approached the newspaper last year to raise their concerns on alleged unfair treatment by MTL Training and Projects. According to Nkosi they have also opened a case against this service provider with the police. On the students’ contracts, MTL Training and Projects is stated as the skills development provider.  The City of Mbombela Local Municipality (CMLM) is stated as the employer. It is an artisan occupational plumber apprenticeship. The programme consists of theory and practicals. The students normally receive a monthly stipend of R2 500 each. There are approximately 150 students who have been placed all over the City of Mbombela Local Municipality to do the practical part of their learnership. According to Nkosi this was supposed to be a big break for some of them, but now they are faced with many challenges. “Raw sewage is dangerous to one’s health and working without PPE is not right. The service provider is aware of this issue because we raised it last year. “We had hoped that when we reopen now in March things would be different. We have tried our best to explain our situation but it appears as if the service provider does not want to improve or change. “Every day when I get to my stationed site at Mbombela Stadium the other workers question us on how we can wake up every day for work, but we do not have tools? It is a difficult situation because even if we try to apply for jobs opportunities available for unemployed people, we do not qualify. “We are registered as employed people. We know we need this job but we feel the service provider should consider our well-being and needs,” he explained. Last year these students claimed that for five months they did not receive their stipends. Mbali Majola of MTL Training and Projects said, “There is no new formal complaint that we received from the students regarding PPE, tools and previous payment issues. All the issues that they raised in the past were addressed during a formal meeting that was held last year.” Majola added that she is not aware of the case opened against her by the students. “For further enquiries contact CMLM,” she said. Last year the municipal spokesperson, Joseph Ngala, told the newspaper that the municipality remained a host employer. “In the sense that it provides facilities for training as well as for practical work, but it is not involved in the payment arrangements. As to how much was agreed upon and the conditions thereof, please refer such questions to EWSETA and MTL. The contract they signed for this apprenticeship prohibits them from being employed by other companies, but the fact that they are nominally receiving an income means they are not eligible for social relief funds,” he explained. ALSO READ: Apprentice plumbers battle to unblock stipends Last year EWSETA, MTL and the students held a meeting to discuss their concerns. Nkosi said there were promises made little changed. At the time of going to press, EWSETA marketing and communication manager, Elfrieda Tyrer, acknowledged receiving the queries and said it will have to investigate the matter. ALSO READ: Hoërskool Sybrand van Niekerk’s best shine in 2020 matric exams CLML did not responded to queries. The newspaper forwarded the case number to the police and we are still waiting further information.