The City of Mbombela Local Municipality (CMLM) has given the homeowners and engineers until March 18 to undertake remedial actions or they will be forced to demolish the house. The house, which has been under construction since 2019, has caused outrage among the community as it started to collapse and bring the surrounding houses down with it. As already reported by Lowvelder, some of the neighbours have had to evacuate their homes for their own safety. According to CMLM, the next step is to ensure the safety of the surrounding buildings before any other remedial action can be taken. ALSO READ: Geelhout murder victim’s widow released from hospital Joseph Ngala, spokesperson for the municipality, said the house is currently still in the same condition. “They have to make sure the neighbour’s home does not collapse when they start with any of the remedial work on the house.” Riaan Lamprecht, a concerned citizen who resides close to those who have had to evacuate, said in his correspondence with CMLM it became clear that the surrounding walls had to be reinforced to ensure the safety of the neighbours’ properties. “The engineers will see if they can save the building before deciding to demolish it. The neighbours’ engineers, appointed by the insurance company, have not yet seen the plans to reinforce the wall, so the builders are basically doing what they want to.” ALSO READ: Most Lowveld dam levels now above 100 per cent Ngala said the municipality is keeping a close eye on the project. “The engineer on site is applying technical remedial processes. If the remedial actions bear no fruit by March 18, the owner will be left with no option but to demolish the building.” Chilumi Architects, that drew up the plans for the house, referred the newspaper to the owners who could not be reached for comment, nor could the engineer appointed to the project. “The engineer’s report indicates they will demolish parts of the building that show cracks and are not aligned, while supporting and shoring the entire structure,” said Ngala.