In line with its corporate social responsibility initiatives, this leading pork manufacturer has stepped forward during these difficult times to put a smile on 1 300 faces at Laerskool Laeveld. “Helping communities is in Eskort’s DNA.  “We are excited to share such a special moment with one of the primary schools in the Lowveld. We at Eskort are here at Laerskool Laeveld today to spoil the kids with delicious hotdogs,” said André McDonald, retail manager of Eskort Nelspruit. We consistently identify opportunities to support those in need,” said  McDonald,   explaining that they usually reach out to a community in need once a month. “This was such a nice surprise for us. We as a school community will continue to support Eskort Butchery Nelspruit because what they are doing to uplift the community means a lot to us,” said Leonie Lamprecht, a teacher at Laerskool Laeveld.  This month, however, McDonald and his team decided to try something different – to hand out 1 300 hotdogs over two days. “This was a first for Eskort Nelspruit, and at first, we weren’t sure if it would be possible. As expected, it wasn’t easy as large gatherings need to be avoided, but seeing the smiles on the kids’ faces made it all worth it over these two days,” he said. He added that this initiative has come to stay, and soon more schools will benefit from this initiative.  “We not only want to thank communities and families that have been at the forefront of supporting the brand for decades, and would like to show parents that we are more than just processed meats. We want to establish ourselves as a much-loved member of the community, and to give back and show that we care,” he said. “We would like to thank Eskort for this valuable contribution they have made to each and every learner. Thank you for your caring and giving back to the community. Your commitment to Laerskool Laeveld is highly appreciated,” said Jacqueline Weideman, the school’s spokesperson.   Eskort Butcheries offer a wide variety of fresh, naturally woodsmoked and processed products. Not only will you find South Africa’s best-loved bacon and gold medal pork sausages, but any delicious pork cut you can imagine. Eskort offers exclusive products in its butcheries that you simply have to try.  Visit Eskort in store at its new central location on the corner of Madiba Drive and Andrew Street for its monthly promotions, and be sure to stop at its ready-to-go counter for delicious, freshly made meals for your enjoyment.  