Dreyer, the first-ever woman of colour in this post, is currently the conservation manager at the Addo Elephant National Park (AENP) in the Eastern Cape and will start her new position on May 1. She was previously based in the KNP, contributing to the protection and conservation of black rhinos in the Intensive Protection Zone (IPZ) of the park. Here, she coordinated and participated in the implementation of aerial surveillance and was also instrumental in drawing up protection strategies and patrol tactics aimed at protecting black rhinos. ALSO READ: Kruger programme aims to nip plant poaching in the bud Prior to this, Dreyer worked as the conservation manager for the Great Fish River Nature Reserve, home to one of the key black rhino populations in South Africa. Dreyer’s appointment comes after a strategy session held in March on preparing a rhino implementation plan aimed at arresting the decline of the rhino population within the KNP. The managing executive of the KNP, Gareth Coleman, congratulated Dreyer on her new appointment. “We are looking forward to welcoming Cathy back to the KNP. She is no stranger to the challenges faced by the ranger corps in conservation management and fighting wildlife crime. “She brings with her a wealth of conservation management experience and in conserving rhinos in particular. She has proven herself as a dedicated conservationist and a law enforcement officer.” He added that “A turnaround plan – which addresses the protection of rhino, managing conservation and wildlife crime in general, and other key security, infrastructure and human capital challenges, is being widely canvassed and consulted upon. ALSO READ: Honorary Rangers procure necessities for Kruger National Park’s Scientific Services “Cathy will be key in driving these changes. We know that she will bring new energy, ideas and passion to our dedicated team within the park.” Dreyer expressed her joy at being the successful candidate. “I am incredibly humbled by this opportunity, particularly at a time when the KNP is vigorously and earnestly working on its turnaround plan. “Leadership is a privilege and I look forward to working alongside the dedicated, committed and passionate ranger corps and conservation management teams in the park.” Dreyer replaces Ken Maggs who was with SANParks for nearly four decades and has retired.