The ceremonies, held on 15 and 16 April, were aimed at honouring schools, teachers and learners in the Gert Sibande Region. The Breyten Circuit Awards event was hosted at Breyten Primary School and the Msukaligwa 1 Circuit Awards was held at Ermelo High School. According to Ms Relebohile Mphasane, MFS Holdings general manager, MFS has been helping teachers in the province with their retirement and giving them financial advice. The company was established in 1996 by two entrepreneurs who saw a gap in the market for advisory services within the retirement landscape. Their joint cumulative experience in the financial services industry spans about 50 years. Therefore, MFS Holdings was born and over the years continued to identify gaps in the market and found innovative ways to close them. MFS Holdings aims to be the leading and most agile independent retirement and financial advisory services company in Africa. Its mission is to provide effective tailor-made financial solutions to all its clients, to build long-term relationships and provide a hub of services that anticipate clients’ needs through research and innovation. MFS has branches all over the country, including Pretoria, Vereeniging, Johannesburg, Durban, Port Shepstone and Mafikeng. In the City of Mbombela Local Municipality, its offices are located at 37 Brown Street, office numbers 1 and 3, fifth floor, Midcity Building. “MFS invited Dr Molefi Oliphant, the president of the South African Football Association, to deliver a keynote address at the ceremonies. He was the first client MFS had since 1996,” Ms Mphasane said. The Breyten award ceremony took place on 15 April. At the Breyten award ceremony, the following categories were awarded certificates: Mbali Msibi from Masizakhe Secondary School was the top learner in mathematical literacy with 97%, Londiwe Thwala from Ubuhlebolwazi Secondary School was the top learner in life orientation with 88% and Nkosinathi Maseko from Ubuhlebolwazi Secondary School was the top learner in history with 91%. Hlengiwe Lephoto was the top learner in accounting with 88% and in life science with 81%. SC Ndlovu from Lake Chrissie Secondary School was awarded for maths literacy and MP Nzima from The Gem Combined School for life orientation. Under the same category was Warburton Combined School which was awarded the school with the highest number of distinctions in the circuit which were 15 distinctions. They were awarded a certificate, a trophy and a laptop. Warburton Combined School was also awarded for being the school in the circuit with the highest percentage of learners who achieved exemption to study for their bachelor degrees. They obtained 66% bachelor passes and received a certificate. Lake Chrissie Secondary School was the school with the highest pass percentage in the circuit with a pass rate of 98%. They were awarded a certificate. The Msukaligwa 1 Awards took place on 16 April. The categories that were awarded at the Msukaligwa 1 Circuit Awards were: They are from Hoërskool Ermelo, Ligbron Academy of Technology, Netherland Park Secondary School, Ermelo Combined School, Reggie Masuku Secondary School, Itafa MSTA and Cebisa Secondary School.