In 1998, Schutte, a social worker with the CMR, was transferred to work with the NG Kerk Witrivier. “Things were different back then and methodologies applied in terms of providing help were often cumbersome. The Koskas was established to support those in need with food and clothing. The scope of the project has grown tremendously over the years. The number of volunteers and donors has increased and it is because of their commitment that we now have this new and larger facility from where we can render services to our immediate and rural community.” “The need will always be there, so having been able to sustain this project for the last 23 years is just an absolute blessing. This has been possible because this congregation is intent on reaching out to support those in need.” In 2020 a decision was made to register the project, called 6:8 Centrum, as an NPO and PBO, motivated by the bible verse Micah 6:8 which in summary suggests three things: to act justly, to love mercy and to walk humbly. When you donate anything to 6:8 Centrum you can get a SARS Art 18A certificate. This initiative was driven by Jacobus Verster. “We now have a larger and custom-built facility, with a large walk-in fridge and proper, neatly organised storage space from where to operate and prepare food and food parcels. In addition to the original Koskas mandate, we have now added veggie garden projects, skills training, ECD development and youth work to the services already on offer,” he said. One can also buy “Koepons vir kos” (food vouchers) from 6:8 Centrum (Koskas) to offer to destitute or needy people. “We are all equal and we need to serve people in need with the dignity they deserve. Many of the poor people who have been helped through Koskas have become dedicated volunteers,” said a minister of the church, Nati Stander. “Koskas and 6:8 Centrum don’t fix people – we befriend and serve them as God would, and this moves them from being poor (in their eyes) to becoming our peers.” The organisation has the need to find work for those 18-year-olds who had undergone skills training. Any support with this would sincerely be appreciated. Should you wish to donate or contribute to this worthy project, contact Verster on 082-456-8148 or Antoinette Bester on 082-450-9434.