Runners from Legogote Villagers, Bella’s Running, Run/Walk For Life, LVCC, City of Mbombela, Nelspruit Marathon Club and many unaffiliated runners joined in a 10-kilometre and 25-kilometre early morning run over the challenging Boulders route. According to Gilda Mavromatis (LRC vice chairperson) and her husband, Steve Mavromatis (LRC club captain), 2020 was a complicated year for everyone, and, 2021 is shaping up to be the same.  “We have all experienced personal and/or professional loss to a greater or lesser degree. Having said that, it is also within our control and ability to bring pockets of joy to ourselves and those around us, to show care and give purpose to those around us. ALSO READ: Reward offered for information on double murder “It is incumbent upon us, as a committee, to provide such to our members and in the same time support a needy cause. That is why we decided to support local charities and local NPOs with our monthly club runs,” Gilda said.  Being a social run, there was no entry fee, but all athletes were asked to give a cash donation in support of GRIP and the Pair Bear Project. At the end of the day more than R4 300 was handed over to GRIP’s Christi Jackson. “Thank you so, so much for today! The total donations received will contribute too many care packs for rape and GBV survivors as well as dolls to be made for local NPOs dealing with rape and GBV. We are very grateful!”  Among the local runners who gathered at the Kaapmuiden Primary School sports grounds on Tuesday was the Lowveld’s own true South African hero, Sibusiso Vilane. He, too, thanked LowMed, in specific the Mavromatis power couple, for efforts to make a difference through sport. ALSO READ: Four more missing crocodiles captured “Your energy, enthusiasm and passion for running are what we need in this country. My sincere gratitude to Bella’s for their generous support along the route and to all who donated to the cause.  “It is sad that in 27 years of democracy we are still swimming in a deep pool of violence, rape and abuse! Let’s us keep on uniting to support GRIP. The little we can do will go a long way in assisting the unfortunate victims.” Vilane said. LowMed Running Club thanked all the clubs, supporters, runners and in specific Bella’s Running Club, which stood out for their selfless and unselfish support of all running initiatives and always being there to support in all ways. ALSO READ: Big Joe’s trial date finally set for September