The food parcels were advanced to over 40 vulnerable members of the community. The parcels included maize meal, sugar, rice, cooking oil, juice, tinned fish, beans, washing powder, soups, soaps, nik naks and other basic food items that can help families survive during these trying times. As early as 09:00, the management of the mine descended to the Bakoni ba Phetla Royal House to donate food parcels to the needy community members.  Peter Lentswane, Northam Booysendal’s Stakeholder Engagement Manager said the food parcels they donated for Makgopheng residents was to help poor community members to have something to eat during the festive season. “We wanted the communities to have a perfect festive, Christmas is a time of giving, that’s the reason we are assisting the locals during the festive period. The foods can last the families for a month or even two months.” He indicated that 2020 was a difficult year due to Covid-19 crisis. “We are all affected by the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown regulations but we find it befitting to help our communities to ensure that our most vulnerable are provided for and protected during these difficult times.”  “We believe in the importance of making a significant and meaningful difference in the communities which we operate in and this initiative also gives us an opportunity to strengthen the relationship with our key stakeholders.” “We urge locals to keep safe this festive, adhere to the lockdown regulations implemented by the government and to always maintain a good personal hygiene as advised by public health experts.” “Booysendal indeed cares about the needs of our communities,” he added. Lentswane said it was not for the first time they donated to the residents of Makgopheng. “In June, we handed an avalanche of groceries to more than 80 families at the village.” The food parcels were received by Kgoshi David Phetla on behalf of his community members.  Phetla thanked the mine for the foods and pleaded with other businesses to also do the same. “We are grateful for what the mine has done to our community. We have the neediest people in our area and we believe the food parcels donated today will assist our families in the upcoming months.”  Many residents stood in long queues waiting for their names to be called so that they could receive their food parcels. Khomotjo Phala, a mother, said this was an early Christmas gift and the food parcels will last them for the whole month. We struggled a lot when the lockdown started and we had no idea where to get food. Thanks to Booysendal for assisting during trying times” said Phala.  Another resident, Elsie Fenyane told Steelburger/Lydenburg News that Northam Booysendal always assisted when they needed help. “The management of this mine has been close to our traditional leaders and our community. We are grateful to have a supportive company that cares about the basic needs of the needy and vulnerable. May Northam Booysedal keep on growing.” She said she was happy that the mine was able to aid families affected by the lockdown.