According to Alisha Mackintosh, Allergy and Immunity Portfolio Manager at Pharma Dynamics, this is because of changes in our routine. She referred to traveling, excessive eating out, shopping and partying, and said staying up later than usual and being more relaxed about hygiene could weaken the immune system, making it more susceptible to viruses and bacteria. Mackintosh added common triggers for these illnesses included:1. Consuming too much sugar The festive season is synonymous with temptations which are laden with sugar. This is said to weaken the white blood cells and makes your body more prone to illnesses. According to Mackintosh, ingesting sugar-laden food can have a long-lasting effect, which contributes to the immune system operating at a ‘distinct disadvantage’. 2. Excessive use of alcoholParties and alcohol become more common during the festive season, but consuming too much alcohol can inhibit the body’s ability to fight infection. Mackintosh advised residents to drink in moderation. 3. Staying up too lateNo work and all play can lead to late nights and getting up later in the mornings, which in turn can trigger migraines.Healthy sleeping habits, explained Mackintosh, could reduce the frequency of headaches by 29% and the intensity of headaches by 40%. 4. Holiday shoppingHandling and withdrawing money over the festive season happens more frequently, and money carries about 3 000 different types of bacteria, which can lead to other illnesses.Also, use sanitising wipes before taking hold of a shopping trolley or wash your hands afterwards. 5. Traveling by planeCertain studies indicate that flying heightens the risk of catching a cold by 80%. The end of year usually means that deadlines need to be met before going on holiday, which puts strain on the immune system. This, coupled with the close quarters of an aeroplane, can make travelers susceptible to illness. Mackintosh advised the boosting of one’s immune system before a flight through correct eating habits, getting enough rest and managing stress, which could contribute to better immunity.Consider taking an immune boosting supplement to keep the common cold at bay.