The SPCA said it often gets criticised for its strict adoption policy, but this is all in an effort to ensure the adopted animals do not end up in its kennels again. “Complaints about the adoption fee are always a red light for us.” Step-by-step, this is what happens and what needs to be considered: 1. Visit the kennels to meet the animals and decide on one you would like to adopt. 2. Next, complete an adoption application form. 3. A home inspection will be conducted within 24 hours after application, where possible. Due to limited staff, it might take a bit longer, but will be done as soon as possible. Animals in pain and distress are always the first priority. ALSO READ: Newborn baby hippo caught on camera in KNP During the home inspection the following will be checked: the fence (suitable to keep the animal in the property), the size of the property (especially for large dogs), shelter provided, hazardous material, open swimming pools, signs of chains, the condition of the other animals and general living conditions. 4. After the inspection you will be notified of the outcome. If your application was successful, you will be requested to bring your other animals (mainly dogs) to the kennels for a meet-and-greet. This is to ensure that all animals on the property get along with one another. 5. Next, complete the adoption contract and pay the adoption fee. For a dog, the fee is R1 250 and for a cat, R750. This includes sterilisation, its first vaccination and deworming. A date for sterilisation will be arranged. The SPCA will take your animal to get sterilised. You can pick him/her up the same afternoon at the kennels. This is the procedure only when adult animals are adopted. For puppies and kittens a sterilisation contract is signed. You will be given a date for the sterilisation and it is your responsibility to take your pet to the vet for sterilisation. The SPCA then follows up to check that you have complied. ALSO READ: Skukuza flights to resume, Lower Sabie to reopen 6. The first vaccination is included in your adoption fee. Adult dogs/cats are vaccinated upon sterilisation, but you can take puppies and kittens yourself as they can go home immediately after an approved home inspection and the completion of the necessary forms and payment due. 7. The SPCA is opposed to breeding and therefore no unsterilised animal will leave its premises. Out-of-area adoptions can take place for adult animals as it can ensure sterilisation. Unfortunately, out-of-area adoptions for animals too young to be sterilised are not allowed. If an adult animal is adopted by someone outside of the SPCA’s area, the home inspection is conducted by the SPCA or other animal welfare organisation in the area of the applicant. Adoptions to areas where there is no SPCA or other animal welfare organisation are also not allowed. Should the animal need assistance, it should be readily available. 8. Read the adoption contract carefully. The SPCA has the right to conduct post-home inspections, and should it find the animal in any circumstances that raise concerns, it has the right to repossess the animal. Some Jack Russels available for adoption:      