With vital international travel still off the table, business owners in the tourism sector were worried that they would not make ends meet over the busy season. However, the influx of local holidaymakers gave the town some hope. “The increase in local support was welcomed and proved what we have always said: we are not as dependent on the international market as we think – and with sensible adaptations to our products and prices, there is no reason why we should not welcome more domestic visitors year-round, making ourselves more adaptable and more resilient,” said Chris Harvie, chairperson of the local tourism organisation.   Many lodges and guest houses adjusted their fees to attract local visitors, some with as much as 25 to 30 per cent less than regular prices. Kurt Schultz, director of Umbhaba Eco Lodge, said although they only made up about 50 per cent of their usual income in December, they were able to cover all their basic costs. “If we had not dropped our prices and compiled a big marketing campaign to attract local tourism, we would not even have made up that 50 per cent,” he said. “We did not make a profit, but we were able to pay the staff’s salaries and cover our basic running costs.”Umbhaba Eco Lodge sported occupation of almost 70 per cent during December. Guests were local domestic travellers, mostly from Gauteng. | According to Schultz, as soon as Pres Cyril Ramaphosa announced the reopening of provincial borders for business and leisure travel in June 2020, business started to return. ALSO READ: Lockdown level 3: Travel, tourism and gatherings unpacked “The moment restrictions were eased and local leisure travel was permitted, we saw bookings coming in.” However, with accommodation spots enjoying near-full capacity, Harvie expressed concern about bars and restaurants, and appealed to the public to support them in any way possible. “While the accommodation sector has been able to bounce back to some degree, the current restrictions are tough on restaurants and bars.  “We should all be eating out and doing our bit, even if the curfew means going out for lunch or an early dinner.”Harvie hopes that smart decisions from hospitality providers can lead to a growing local tourism market for years to come. ALSO READ: Latest level 3 regulations: Recreational activities explained “People took up the appeal to support tourism in its hour of need. We are a remarkable country and we always respond to an appeal for support. “It would be wonderful if this were to be a long-term change and meant that domestic tourism could continue to grow exponentially for everyone’s benefit.”