Last night President Cyril Ramaphosa announced the closure of South Africa’s land borders until February 15. In the latest lockdown regulations gazetted by Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs Minister, Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma, exceptions to the rule are set out. The document also sets out guidelines for gatherings, and tourist and entertainment destinations. Caxton Local Media summarises these regulations below. Click here for more on personal movement regulations. Click here for more on the latest regulations, recreational activities, and sport. The topic forms a substantial part of the newly gazetted document. The term “gathering” could describe a group of employees at work, wedding guests, mourners at a funeral or even people in a cinema. All social, political and faith-based gatherings are prohibited, as are tribal council meetings. Gatherings at public parks, sports grounds and fields are not allowed. Click here for the exceptions to this rule. Night vigils and after-funeral gatherings are not allowed. Funerals may not be attended by more than 50 people and may last a maximum of two hours. Initiation practices are prohibited except for new initiates in the Eastern Cape who have already begun with the initiation process. They will be allowed to complete initiation school. Post-initiation celebrations (also called imgidi) are prohibited. Initiation schools that do not comply may be closed down. Basic rules of thumb: Before identifying specific venues where gatherings may take place, the regulations indicate that basic rules of thumb such as social distancing, sanitising and the implementation of health protocols always apply. All owners or operators of facilities where gatherings are held must display the venue’s certificate of occupancy which sets out the maximum number of persons the facility may hold. Indoor venues where gatherings are held may accommodate a maximum of 50 persons. Outdoor venues may not host more than 100 people. The regulations stipulate: “if a venue is too small to hold fifty persons observing a distance of at least one and a half metres from each other, then no more than 50 per cent of the capacity of the venue may be used.” Cinemas, theatres, casinos, museums, galleries, libraries, archives, gyms, fitness centres, restaurants, and auctioneering venues may do so. According to the regulations hotels, lodges, bed and breakfasts, timeshare facilities, resorts and guest houses may operate and host gatherings. These venues may fill its room capacity as long as social distancing of one and a half metres is implemented in common spaces. Conferencing, dining and entertainment facilities will continue to operate, as will businesses. Law enforcement officers that encounter gatherings in contravention of the regulations must order the attendees to disperse immediately. The regulations also indicate that, if they refuse to leave, they may be arrested and detained. Botanical gardens, game parks and aquariums that have access control and entry limitation measures may operate. Game parks will operate between 06:00 and 18:00. Botanical gardens, aquariums and other parks that have such measures in place may stay open and operate between 09:00 and 18:00. The crossing of South Africa’s land borders is prohibited. However, the Minister of Home Affairs or his designated representative may allow the crossing of these borders in exceptional circumstances. The latest lockdown regulations indicate that the following circumstances and persons could qualify as exceptional: Anyone who wants to apply for emergency cross-border travel not listed above may send an e-mail to exceptions@dha.co.za. Three international airports remain operative. These are the OR Tambo, King Shaka and Cape Town International Airports. Travellers must provide proof of having tested negative for Covid-19 no more than 72 hours prior to their departure. Passenger ships for international leisure purposes may not operate. This prohibition excludes small crafts that operate in line with health and border law enforcement. CLICK HERE TO ACCESS THE GAZETTED REGULATIONS Notice: Coronavirus reporting at Caxton Local Media aims to combat fake news Dear reader, As your local news provider, we have the duty of keeping you factually informed on Covid-19 developments. As you may have noticed, mis- and disinformation (also known as “fake news”) is circulating online. Caxton Local Media is determined to filter through the masses of information doing the rounds and to separate truth from untruth in order to keep you adequately informed. Local newsrooms follow a strict pre-publication fact-checking protocol. A national task team has been established to assist in bringing you credible news reports on Covid-19. Readers with any comments or queries may contact National Group Editor Irma Green (irma@caxton.co.za) or Legal Adviser Helene Eloff (helene@caxton.co.za).