An operator approved under The National Land Transport Act No. 5 of 2009 (NLTA) will allow individuals access to safe, affordable and convenient public transportation. The application is free and can be downloaded from Google Play store.    Ingwe’s vision is to become the first preferred, most affordable e-hailing service provider without compromising reliability and safety while in line with the NLTA and providing a professional service with roadworthy vehicles, through highly trained ethical drivers who holds the best interest of commuters at heart.  Over many years the taxi industry has been opposed to the 4IR revolution passenger transportation services or e-hailing, as it is sometimes referred to. This because taxi operators who own minibus taxis and metered taxis have viewed e-hailing as competition which was stealing their passengers because of the ease with which passengers are able to access the service at any time of day.   To an extent this remains true. E-hailing in its current form has bypassed a number of provisions of the NLTA which taxi operators have to comply with and this has contributed to taxi operators opposing e-hailing. Ingwe e-hailing service is a uniquely developed solution by and for the local taxi industry to align it with the 4IR developments regarding passenger transportation service. The local taxi industry has played and continues to play an enormous role in the lives of South Africans through generations by providing the most reliable public transportation services across the country and beyond our borders.  It is thus about time that all efforts are geared to aligning the taxi industry with the 4IR passenger transportation services (e-hailing).   The time has also come for the taxi industry to adapt to changes brought about by technological advancements while protecting its business by being in charge of public transportation services of all types. The influx of foreign based e-hailing and non-NLTA compliant services has given rise to violence directed at these operators leaving many commuters stranded.   Ingwe believes that despite a populated e-Hailing space, that there still is a need and opportunity for a homegrown and develop NLTA compliant e-hailing service such as what its application provide. Ingwe will take you from A to B safely and timeously and if you had one too many (drinks), we will also be there for you and we can also assist with transport to schools. You can visit them at 31 Ehmke Street, Nelspruit.     