Dr Robert Gustav Nel (77), whose practice was based in Hazyview Junction Mall, passed away in Mediclinic Nelspruit after battling Covid-19 since December. On Tuesday, Mediclinic Nelspruit flew its flag at half mast in loving memory of Dr Nel.   “The day after Christmas, Robbie went for his usual run with his son,” said his wife, Linda Nel. “The heart rate monitor strapped to his arm showed a severely increased heart rate of around 180 beats per minute, and he had to walk back home, which was very unlike him. He took a Covid-19 test that same day and received his positive results later that afternoon.” Doctors told Linda that, although he recovered from the viral infection, the damage to his lungs was too severe. The cause of his death was secondary Covid-related pneumonia.   According to Linda, Nel had no other medical issues. “He was incredibly healthy his entire life. This was the second time in his life that he’s ever been in hospital, except for a minor lens replacement surgery at a day hospital a year ago.” His friend and long-time patient, Ken Robertson, will remember Nel as someone who would go out of his way to help others. “When the tsunami struck Thailand in 2004, Robbie flew over to help. As far as I know, he did it all at his own cost. He just wanted to help – that’s just the type of person he was. The question is, when things go wrong and we get sick, who do we phone now?”  Fitness, farming and flying were a few of Dr Nel’s great loves, apart from his wife, his three children and his two grandchildren.“He was a doctor by profession and a pilot by choice,” Robertson added. “When he wasn’t running the Comrades Marathon or competing in the Iron Man challenge, he would be up flying his Piper J-3 Cub.” ALSO READ: Skukuza Airport temporarily closed, flights suspended Nel was an honoured member of the Lowveld Aero Club and earned his wings in 2015.  Condolences poured in on social media from patients and friends, calling him a “true Lowveld legend”, a “fabulous person” and a “great man who will be sorely missed”. ALSO READ: Deceased Mbombela car guard’s next of kin sought Dr Robbie Nel was 77 at the time of his death. His 78th birthday would have taken place on January 29. A private memorial service is being arranged by the family.