Sean Carlisle Executive Head of Uplands:  “Challenges bring possibilities and while Covid-19 has presented numerous challenges for the Uplands community, it has also opened many creative educational possibilities. Uplands staff have responded with flexibility and professionalism in an ever-changing landscape. “A growth mindset within our staff and pupils is evident, as Uplands continually challenges the status quo in order to improve our offering of educational excellence. I have no doubt that the year ahead will also highlight the value of a well-rounded, balanced experience for pupils, together with high expectations and standards. “The outlook ahead for 2021 shows resilience, adaptability, the importance of human connection, and the ability to think critically and find solutions – all of which will greatly benefit our Uplands pupils, not only at school but in their lives to come. We all want to set our children up for success in life; it’s a natural part of being a parent. “My roots are in the Lowveld, having grown up here, so returning to Uplands feels as if I am returning home. During my career in education both in South Africa and abroad I have spent two separate periods at Uplands, so I feel quite comfortable with the new role and truly look forward to immersing myself and becoming reacquainted with the wonderful Uplands team and community, and indeed, the greater White River area and our surrounding communities through the important work of Uplands Outreach. “As a family, we are privileged to live on the spacious school campus which has exceptional facilities and a family-friendly environment. I’m excited to be part of a boarding school that develops and nurtures resilient children and day scholars from all over the province. I look forward to guiding and assisting a very professional and competent team of teachers and support staff into the future. ALSO READ: Uplands College honours its top achievers “Most of all, I can’t wait for our pupils to return to campus, as our children bring life, energy and laughter. I also hope to spend time in the classroom and on the sports field. At the end of the day, I hope to realise the vision of the school. Uplands develops interested and interesting young people who are self-confident, happy and successful in a changing world.” Scott Hauptfleisch Headmaster of Uplands Preparatory School:  “One thing I think Covid-19 has taught us is that we have to be flexible and adaptable in any situation. Bearing this in mind, one of our main focus points for Uplands during the 2021 school year will be to continue to use a skills-based educational approach and focus on having a ‘growth mindset’. “This unlocks our ability to learn and grow, especially during challenging times. Due to these circumstances, our pupils’ ability to think outside the box and our growth mindset, I believe we all will be stronger when we come out on the other side of the pandemic! “As the new preparatory headmaster, I feel very privileged to lead a school with such a rich past and an exciting future. My family and I love the fact that Uplands is like a family and completely integrated into the White River community. “We can’t wait to embrace that by getting to explore these surrounding areas as well as getting to know the locals. Growing up on the campus also allows my boys the opportunity to fish in the dam and cycle on the school mountain bike tracks, which they love. “As a family, we have regularly spent holidays in the bush and living so close to the Kruger Park now is wonderful. I am extremely excited to be part of such a wonderful, dynamic team and I can’t wait to see the school continue to grow from strength to strength.” ALSO READ: Uplands College CANSA debutantes raise cancer funds