Two princes were gunned down in separate incidents last week, sparking outrage from the provincial police commissioner, Lt Gen Mondli Zuma. According to reports, the first shooting incident occurred in Matsulu on January 4 at about 22:00. ALSO READ: Reaction officer risks life and limb to save family The Mpumalanga police spokesperson, Brig Leonard Hlathi, said a man entered the home of Prince Zwelethini Dlamini from the ubukhosi baka Lomshiyo royal household, under Chief Tikhontele Dlamini. The gunman purportedly brandished a firearm and opened fire on Dlamini. “The victim had been eating food with two friends when this callous incident happened. The assailant did not utter a word but took aim and opened fire at Dlamini killing him instantly,” said Hlathi. ALSO READ: Mediclinic Nelspruit confirms rise in Covid-19 numbers and associated capacity constraints The prince’s friends managed to escape and did not sustain any injuries during the shooting. Hlathi called on anyone with information that can assist the police in apprehending the suspect to call Capt Elvis Shabangu on 082-449-0339. Another royal family member, Prince Andries Mbangelwa Mahlangu (67), was gunned down on Saturday while sitting in his car. Mahlangu was attached to the Nzunza Mabhoko Tribal Authority. According to his son, at about 08:15, he heard gunshots and went to investigate. ALSO READ: Two killed in accident in Karino “He then saw two men running out of the yard where his father had parked his vehicle. When he approached the car, he realised that his father was slumped unconscious against the steering wheel,” Hlathi added. When he realised that Mahlangu had been shot, he called the police and emergency medical personnel who responded to the scene. The prince was certified dead on the scene and no arrests were made in connection with the incident. “The police request that anyone with information that can assist in the investigation, to contact Lt Col April Aphane on 082-302-6621,” Hlathi concluded.