The centre is situated at Jane Furse Ngwanamatlang section. The pupils sang and ululated as the management of Northam Booysendal gave out the food parcels. During the handover, the mine management was assisted by the Tshufi Booysendal Community Forum’s members.  Speaking during the handover, Northam Booysendal’s Stakeholder Engagement Manager, Peter Lentswane said they wanted to do something memorable for the children and thecrèche. “The mine is so passionate about children and making sure that they are looked after, and have a meal to eat, regardless of background, or other circumstances. We chose this crèche as we want these kids to have a perfect Christmas and New Year.  “Christmas is a time of giving, that’s the reason we are assisting these kids and their families. The foods can last each family for a month or even two months.” Lentswane added, “We believe in the importance of making a significant difference in the communities which we operate in and this initiative also gives us an opportunity to strengthen the relationship with our key stakeholders.”“We urge locals to keep safe this festive, adhere to the lockdown regulations implemented by the government and to always maintain a good personal hygiene as advised by public health experts.”  He said the donation would sustain a family of five for one month or more and reduce the need for people to go out to the shops to purchase foodstuffs. Lowveld Media witnessed ecstatic kids receive bags of maize meal, veggies, tinned foods, sugar, rice, cooking oil, juice, beans, washing powder, soups, soaps, nik naks, sweets and other basic food items that can help families survive during these trying times.  Representing the recipients was community member Lloyd Mankge, he applauded the mine for a great job. “We are thankful for what Northam Booysendal has done for our people. Our kids will now enjoy the festive season. They received basic foods and also some snacks for the festive.”  The teachers at the crèche said they are overwhelmed by the gesture and hope the mine will continue to support them with other projects. One of the kids at the crèche, Khutso Swaile also applauded the mine for handing them the foods. She said this was an early Christmas and New Year gifts.  “Thanks to the mine, we will now enjoy our sweets, Simbas and my favourite Oros drink,” said the excited kid.This was not the first time Northam Booysendal donated to the people of Jane Furse. In June this year, the mine handed more than 80 food hampers to families at Ga-Molepane village. 