Services have been suspended at the Department of Home Affairs after an announcement by the minister of home affairs, Dr Aaron Motsoaledi. This follows the presidential announcement on January 11 which introduced adjusted level 3 regulations and the closure of all 20 land borders that were open during level 1. Motsoaledi mentioned that certain services will be exempt from the suspension of services. These include the movement of cargo and commercial goods, emergency medical treatment, the movement of diplomats, deportation and people who need to return to their countries of origin. It also includes returning South Africans and learners attending school on a daily basis. ALSO READ: Unpacked: The effect of 2021’s level 3 lockdown regulations on personal movement “Even during the hard lockdown, we did not stop people who wanted to go home from doing so. If people do not fall into any of the categories mentioned, but believe their case is worth considering, they can apply to the minister of home affairs seven working days before the date of intended travel for exemption. “They must provide a copy of their passport, a copy of a temporary residence visa, demonstration of exceptional circumstances for the request to enter the Republic, number of days of intended stay, and proof of accommodation or place of residence,” said Motsoaledi. These applications can be sent to Covid19exceptions@dha.gov.za. The minister continued to say that returning South Africans are still subject to the recommended Covid-19 screening conventions and self-isolation and quarantine regulations. ALSO READ: Latest level 3 regulations: Recreational activities explained “This includes the provision of a valid certificate of a negative Covid-19 test obtained not more than 72 hours before the date of travel. “In the event of failure to submit a certificate as proof of a negative Covid-19 test, such person will be required to do an antigen test at his or her own cost and if he or she tests positive for Covid-19, he or she will be required to quarantine at their own costs,” he said. The decision to suspend services comes after a surge in positive tests by home affairs staff for the virus at the department’s Gauteng, Eastern Cape, Western Cape and KwaZulu-Natal offices. ALSO READ: Safety tips to consider teaching your kids before school starts As South Africa is experiencing an unprecedented increase in Covid-related deaths during the second wave of the pandemic, certain services have been suspended until further notice. These include: applications of Smart ID cards, except for matriculants, applications for passports, except for people who fall in the categories permitted to travel in the amended Disaster Management Act regulations and marriage services such as solemnisation and registration. Motsoaledi said, “We are aware this will be difficult on people. Please bear with us. We are trying to save lives while providing enabling documents. ALSO READ: WATCH: 12km queue at the Lebombo point of entry “For collection of ID, please do not come to home affairs unless you are specifically invited via an SMS. We have also decided to change some of the modalities in which home affairs services are provided. “We are proposing that all births and deaths be registered at the health facilities where they occur. These are the 156 health facilities with a home affairs office presence. A list of these hospitals is available via Hospitals Online, For Twitter and Facebook accounts, follow @HomeAffairsSA.” He added that home affairs offices will operate from 08:00 to 15:30, Mondays to Fridays and that the operating hours will be extended to 19:00 to provide assistance to funeral parlours and families wanting to bury their loved ones within the timeframe set out for Covid-19 deaths. ALSO READ: Mediclinic Nelspruit confirms rise in Covid-19 numbers and associated capacity constraints The offices will continue to be open from Monday to Friday, from 08:00 to 15:30. “In order to defeat this pandemic and go back to normality, we still appeal to everyone visiting home affairs to observe Covid-19 protocols such as wearing masks properly, observing social distancing and sanitising hands regularly. “Nobody will be allowed to enter any office without a mask,” the minister concluded.