While some of the larger companies may have survived the strict lockdown, the smaller, independent operators are the ones who suffered the most, some of whom had to close down permanently. According to Kurt Schultz, director and operator of Kurt Safari Company, safaris are almost exclusively supported by the international market. “South Africans like to take their own cars to a game reserve. Only sometimes will they treat themselves to a guided game drive, if they can afford it, but by far the majority of safari clients are overseas travellers. “If the borders don’t reopen soon, I foresee only doom and gloom for the game-viewing business.” There are more than 400 registered OSVs in the Kruger National Park, most of which are owned by independent operators and are still owned by the bank. “The smaller, freelance guides don’t have the budget to wait a year for business to return,” he said. “If the international borders don’t open for leisure travel soon, the safari business, especially the smaller operators, will be in big trouble.” ALSO READ: Domestic travellers in Hazyview save tourism during festive season Many of the independent operators had to take out a loan to buy their vehicles, and are still paying them off to the bank. “We have to sign surety when we take out loans to buy the cars. That means when payments are missed, the bank will keep us personally responsible. “They can repossess our private assets, like houses, cars, even beds.” Schultz said smaller operators that now need to sell their OSVs for capital are having a hard time, because there is currently no market for these vehicles. “No one is buying OSVs now. We can’t even use them for any other purposes, because they are not permitted to drive on open roads. “Operators are then forced to sell their transfer vehicles, like Toyota Quantums or Fortuners, because there is more of a market for those.” Another major problem is that Europe and America, two of the biggest contributors to the area’s international visitors, have not yet opened their international borders. ALSO READ: Lockdown level 3: Travel, tourism and gatherings unpacked “It doesn’t help to march or protest in South Africa if travellers can’t leave their own countries,” Schultz added. Ken Robertson, provincial administrator for the VF Plus and branch chairperson in Hazyview, said open vehicle operators are adhering to the industry’s Covid-19 safety protocol and should be considered safe as in many aspects, the industry safety exceeds government protocols for the transport industry. ALSO READ: Latest level 3 regulations: Recreational activities explained “The government has issued strict rules for game drives and safaris and operators are committed to protecting visitors by abiding by the rules and protocols. “Open vehicles are well ventilated and potential visitors should not have to fear contracting the virus on such a vehicle if the protocols are adhered to.”