The Mpumalanga government has set aside R10 million to mitigate against the impact of Covid-19 to the tourism sector in the province. The Mpumalanga Tourism and Parks Agency (MTPA) invites provincial tourism businesses to apply for Covid-19 tourism relief funding. This is in support of the National Tourism Relief Initiative focusing on Mpumalanga’s small, medium and microenterprises (SMMEs) in distress due to the pandemic. All those tourism amenities that did not benefit from the National Tourism Relief Funding and any other funding provided by the South African government. The following tourism amenities and services are thus targeted for the relief fund to sustain operations and jobs. • Accommodation establishments – hotels, resort properties, bed and breakfasts, guest houses, lodges and backpackers. • Hospitality and related services – restaurants (not attached to hotels), crafters and creative arts. • Conference venues (not attached to hotels), professional catering and attractions. • Travel and related services – tour operators, travel agencies, car rental companies and coach operators. • Tourist guides, professional hunters and tourism grading assessors. • Informal tourism-related businesses, for example subsistence businesses or crafters and artists, except for performing artists. The following criteria applies to all applications to be received from accommodation establishments, hospitality and related services, travel and related services and informal tourism-related businesses. • Be an existing tourism/specific establishment as outlined in the scope of application. • Be a business operating in Mpumalanga. • Be a registered tourism business (CIPC, trust, cooperatives and sole proprietor). • Be a taxpayer in good standing with a valid tax clearance certificate. • In business for one year or more and have not benefited from the National Tourism Relief Fund and/or any other government providing funding. • Business with a turnover of not more than R10 million per annum. • Proof that the relief fund is required as a result of the impact of Covid-19. • Must submit six months’ bank statements dated from January to June 2020. • Must submit proof of employees in service prior to April 2020 (list of employees with a sworn statement (affidavit) • Motivation – how lockdown regulations brought about hardship and distress in the business. • Declaration that the relief fund will not be utilised to service pre-existing debts either than to help retain jobs and sustenance of the business. * Note: In case of an informal/subsistence tourism-related business, a proof from the relevant municipality and or institution in which you operate will be required. The following criteria applies to all applications to be received from tourist guides, professional hunters and tourism grading assessors. * Note: In case of tourist guides, you must be registered with the Mpumalanga provincial registrar (MTPA) in terms of the National Tourism Act 3 2014. * Note: In case of professional hunting, you must be registered as a professional hunter with the MTPA in terms of the Mpumalanga Nature Conservation Act. * Note: In case of a tourism grading assessor, you must be registered as a tourism grading assessor as certified by the Tourism Grading Council of South Africa. * Note: Proof of an active registration valid until January 2020. * Note: Not benefited from the National Tourism Relief Fund for tourist guides or UIF. The grant amount available per application that qualifies will be considered as follows: • Accommodation establishments will receive an amount that ranges between R25 000 and R50 000 as maximum for applicant. • Hospitality and related services will receive an amount that ranges between R15 000 and R30 000 as maximum per applicant. • Travel and related services will receive an amount that ranges between R15 000 and R30 000 as maximum for applicant. • Individual tourism tourist guides, professional hunters and tourism grading assessors will receive an amount of R6 000 per applicant. • Informal/subsistence tourism-related businesses will receive an amount of R5 000 per applicant. The application form and guidelines that outline the criteria for eligible applications are available on the MTPA website: www.mpumalanga.com. The application forms and all enquiries regarding to the programme can also be requested from: Phumeza Kalawe on 063-185-9098 or phumeza.kalawe@mtpa.co.za Londiwe Ngwenya on 082-092-3913 or londiwe.ngwenya@mtpa.co.za Siphiwe Thomas on 067-810-8276 or siphiwe.thomas@mtpa.co.za Beatrice Nkalanga on 071-303-8536 or NkalangaBP@mpg.gov.za Completed forms with all supporting documents may ONLY be submitted electronically to the following email address: tourism@mtpa.co.za. a) That the correct application form is used as specified. b) That the applicant (business) is fully tax compliant. c) That all applications be submitted on or before January 29, 2021 (closing date). d) That all supporting documents including ID copies, tax clearance certificates, six months’ bank statements, and so on. MUST be certified. e) The informal and subsistence crafters and creative artists’ proof of registration from the Department of Culture, Sport and Recreation. f) Any application received after the closing date shall not be accepted. 