DA Mpumalanga called on the MEC for cooperative governance and traditional affairs (Cogta), Mandla Msibi, to ascertain the extent of damage caused by the tropical storm Eloise. The party said the department must ensure that those who affected are given assistance. According to Trudie Grové-Morgan, spokesperson of the DA, numerous videos have been circulating on social media showing how the weather system affected the province. She said the DA will also write to Premier Refilwe Mtshweni-Tsipane asking her to declare the province a disaster area. “In the absence of such, MEC Msibi must detail his plan of action of assisting the communities affected by Eloise.” After the cyclone had hit the country, the South African Weather Service issued a red level 10 warning for parts of Limpopo and Mpumalanga on January 24. “Many parts of the province experienced heavy and continuous rain, and this caused fast-flowing rivers and floods in parts of Graskop, Nkomazi and Mbombela. The continuous rain, the resultant flash flooding and uprooted trees caused damage to road infrastructure,” she explained. “According to TRAC toll route managers, Eloise damaged the N4 motorway between Elandshoek and Ngodwana. It has been reported in the media that the roofs of a number of houses were blown off and some walls collapsed in Block B in Nkomazi near Komatipoort, Mkhuhlu in Bushbuckridge, parts of Sabie, Graskop and Thembisile Hani.” ALSO READ: Cogta warns public to remain alert after Eloise Grovè-Morgan said given the widespread destruction, they call on the MEC to prioritise these areas “to ensure that disaster management teams are on the ground and assisting community members. ALSO READ: General rules to consider when heavy storms threaten “The widespread flooding experienced in the Ehlanzeni District as a result of Eloise, also claimed the lives of two people in the Lowveld. We would like to pass our condolences to the families of these two.” Grovè-Morgan said the DA calls on community members to refrain from crossing raging rivers.