Did you know?•Skin cancer is the most common cancer worldwide, and as South Africa has one of the highest monitored ultraviolet (UV) levels in the world, it also has one of the highest incidences of skin cancer globally. •Ultraviolet rays (UVA and UVB) reach the earth’s surface and are damaging to skin. UVB is responsible for producing sunburn and can cause sunburn within fifteen minutes, causing permanent damage, while UVA rays can contribute to ageing the skin and DNA damage. Damage from both UVA and UVB rays can lead to skin cancer. What can you do?Self monitoringGet into the habit of doing monthly skin checks using the ABCDE guidelines on the CANSA website and get a friend or family member to check out of sight areas like the scalp, back and buttocks. Any irregularities should immediately be reported to a doctor or dermatologist. Download the Miiskin AppCANSA has partnered with Miiskin, a free user-friendly app that helps monitor skin changes. Although it is not a diagnostic tool and does not replace a visit to the dermatologist or doctor, it does help raise the alarm on skin changes which may then be further investigated by a professional. Get screenedCANSA offers FotoFinder Dermoscope screening at most CANSA Care Centres. It is important to book an appointment in advance as FotoFinders roam between Care Centres. The FotoFinder Dermoscope offers an all in one dermoscopic skin cancer screening and mole mapping, making it the imaging system of choice by thousands of dermatologists worldwide. The system automatically links digital dermoscopic images of moles to an overview image, making the identification and tracking of lesions easy. You can also visit your dermatologist for screening on an annual basis. Be sun-smart•The use of sunscreen is not a license to ‘bare all’ in the sun. Avoid direct sunlight between 10am and 3pm when the sun’s rays are most dangerous. •Stay in the shade or under an (UV protective) umbrella as much as possible. UV rays reflect off cement, water, sand, glass and grass and can therefore cause sunburn in the shade. •Other protection includes UV protective clothing as UV radiation can penetrate fabric. Swimwear and umbrellas bearing the CANSA Seal of Recognition should be part of your protection kit. Look out for CANSA’s swing tags and Smart Choice logo on clothing, hats and summer fun accessories. •Avoid sunlamps and tanning beds. •All sunscreens bearing the CANSA Seal of Recognition have broad spectrum protection abilities, meaning they protect against UVA and UVB rays. Always apply a sunscreen, with a sun protection factor (SPF) between 20 and 50 depending on skin type. •It’s also important to wear sunglasses with a UV protection rating of UV400 to protect the eyes. 