While many South African beaches remain closed and sporting enthusiasts may still not watch their teams in action, activities like a day in the Kruger National Park are available to those seeking relaxation during lockdown level three. This is in terms of the new lockdown regulations gazetted yesterday (January 12, 2021). The document was issued by the Minister of Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs, Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma, and sets out personal movement restrictions binding all residents of the country. Any South African that seeks to visit a public place (or to make use of public transport) must wear a mask, but children aged six and younger are exempted.  Sanitation and social distancing must always be practised. In this feature Caxton Local Media summarises the regulations on recreation. Beaches, dams, rivers, and lakes All beaches, dams, rivers and lakes located in areas declared as hotspots, and recreational facilities at these places, are closed to the public. Beaches that are open to the public in non-hotspots (such as the Northern Cape) will be open between 06:00 and 19:00. Fishing The regulations state: “The closure of beaches and restrictions on times of operation do not apply to fishermen for fishing purposes, who are in possession of a permit or exemption granted in terms of the Marine Living Resources Act, 1998.” Game parks Game parks will operate between 06:00 and 18:00. Botanical gardens, aquariums, zoos, recreational facilities and public parks: Public parks and recreational facilities that do not have access control and entry limitation measures may not operate according to the latest version of lockdown level three. Botanical gardens, aquariums, zoos and other parks that have such measures in place may stay open and operate between 09:00 and 18:00. Alcohol The sale of liquor remains banned. Nightclubs, bars, taverns, shebeens and similar establishments are closed. Any distribution or transport of liquor in public places will not be allowed, except for export purposes, or where the alcohol that is transported will be used in hand sanitizers, disinfectants or cleaning products. The once-off transportation of alcohol from licensed premises to storing facilities will be allowed. Sports facilities and public swimming pools: International sporting events involving opponents posing a low or medium Covid-19 infection or transmission risk may be held. No spectators will be allowed at any sporting event. Professional and non-professional matches by recognised sporting bodies are allowed between 05:00 and 21:00. The only persons allowed at such matches will be the players, match officials, support staff, and medical crew required for the match as well as journalists, television and radio crew members, security personnel, emergency medical services, and necessary venue employees. Public swimming pools remain closed except for the training of professional athletes and the hosting of sporting competitions by recognised sporting bodies as per the latest lockdown regulations. CLICK HERE TO ACCESS THE GAZETTED REGULATIONS Notice: Coronavirus reporting at Caxton Local Media aims to combat fake news Dear reader,As your local news provider, we have the duty of keeping you factually informed on Covid-19 developments. As you may have noticed, mis- and disinformation (also known as “fake news”) is circulating online. Caxton Local Media is determined to filter through the masses of information doing the rounds and to separate truth from untruth in order to keep you adequately informed. Local newsrooms follow a strict pre-publication fact-checking protocol. A national task team has been established to assist in bringing you credible news reports on Covid-19.Readers with any comments or queries may contact National Group Editor Irma Green (irma@caxton.co.za) or Legal Adviser Helene Eloff (helene@caxton.co.za).