Linda Venter had read about the #adoptanurse project that Dr Amelia Brink of Mediclinic Vergelegen started and decided to implement it in this area. And so Mbombela’s Adopt a Frontline Worker #YouAreSpecial project was born. Venter said, “Covid-19 has a huge impact on everyone’s lives, and even more so on the lives of our healthcare personnel who work in the Covid-19 wards. Even here in Mbombela, the medical staff are working around the clock and are under tremendous strain.” She followed up with the Helderberg Gemeente, also involved in the project, and received guidelines from them. The idea is to provide healthcare workers with a care package of drinks and treats to say thank you. Venter said she will start with the Covid-19 wards and then, depending on the amount of donations, expand the project further. ALSO READ: Eskom warns of higher electrical shock risks during Lowveld’s severe inclement storms “Family, friends, friends of friends, the church community, Konica Minolta and each and every person that I have approached so far, jumped in enthusiastically and became a part of our local attempt. I am so excited and I believe that this will become a true community project,” Venter said. She further thanked Crossing SUPERSPAR, Sandveld Beskuit, and other churches for their involvement. Venter has requested the public to donate items for care packages for each of the doctors and nurses. These include 500 millilitre bottled water, Energades or Powerades, and in a seperate, sealed bag any of the following: energy bars, chocolate bars, cappuccino sachets, single rusks, foot cream/gel, and thank-you messages with a Bible verse. “With this humble effort we would like to thank them, show them that we care, encourage them and, most of all, assure them that they are in our prayers. There is a contactless drop-off box available at the Gereformeerde Kerk Nelspruit, on the corner of Wilger Street and Koraalboom Avenue, between 09:00 and 13:00.” For any enquiries, contact Linda Venter on 082-485-1776. The final donation intake will be on February 1. After this the contributions will be handed out. A project for the Barberton medical personnel was also started. Jenny Meerholz can be contacted on 082-315-5656 regarding this (please only send messages). The drop-off point for donations is the NG Kerk Barberton, 1 Smal Street. ALSO READ: Disruptive rain expected for Lowveld, despite Cyclone Eloise changing track