Is Pregnancy Glow Real? Pregnancy glow is absolutely real, and it usually starts occurring from the beginning of the second trimester. It was long believed that this phenomenon was caused by the happiness that a woman experiences during pregnancy, but we now know the exact biological causes. What Causes Pregnancy Glow? There are a few different processes going on in a pregnant woman’s body that makes her skin glow. One of the main causes of this phenomenon represent the increased levels of certain hormones like progesterone and oestrogen. During pregnancy, levels of these two hormones gradually increase, which is why the skin usually starts to glow during the second trimester. Oestrogen is particularly important here as it makes your blood vessels expand while you’re pregnant. This is a natural process that is vital to ensure a sufficient supply of blood goes to the placenta and foetus. The increased blood flow caused by hormonal changes also plays a part in making your skin shine. Both of the aforementioned hormones cause your sebaceous glands to produce more oil during pregnancy as well. The increased oil in your skin plays a huge part in making it glow. Although some women experience only the good side of increased oil production, there are those who may deal with acne problems. How Long Does Pregnancy Glow Last? The duration of pregnancy glow varies from woman to woman. Some may only experience it for a few months, while others may find their skin glowing until the end of their pregnancy. Regardless if it only lasts a month or half a year, people are likely to see a change in your skin and you will probably start getting more compliments. The Road to Pregnancy If you’re planning on having a baby in the not-so-distant future, you’ll have to prepare your body for this. That means exercising at least 150 minutes per week, eating healthy, eliminating alcohol consumption, and taking prenatal vitamins. Some women can have an incredibly hard time conceiving no matter how well they prepare their body. Nevertheless, modern procedures like in vitro fertilisation have shown a high success rate. A fertility expert at any world-class fertility clinic can suggest different treatment options for women who are having difficulties conceiving. While you’re preparing for pregnancy, you should stock up on some skin care products that you should use while pregnant. Some of the things that you’ll need include sunscreen, a mild moisturiser, and a mild, fragrance-free skin cleanser. It’s best to opt for hydrating products for sensitive skin. Due to hormonal changes during pregnancy, some women may deal with excessive acne problems. However, certain acne treatments aren’t safe for use when you’re pregnant. In case you want to deal with your acne problem, it’s best to talk with a dermatologist and find safe treatment options.