Senior traditional leader, Ntokolo Justinas Maloka was removed from his position following the outcome of an investigation headed by the MEC for cooperative governance and traditional affairs, Mandla Msibi. A report was conducted by the Tolo Committee on Traditional Leadership Claims and Disputes, was presented to the Bakgatla Ba Mocha Ba Maloka chieftancy and recommended Maloka’s removal. ALSO READ: Mbombela police warn of a spike in laptop thefts and robberies According to Msibi, the finding was made after an investigation by the committee. “The investigation by the committee was conducted in accordance with the Traditional Leadership Framework Act. “All parties cited in the dispute were afforded an opportunity to state their cases orally and in writing, and the information was used by the committee to make the final determination, of which the replacement of the incumbent is the outcome,” Msibi said. ALSO READ: Mpumalanga local Municipalities struggle financially Once the committee’s recommendation was announced, the MEC advised Maloka to accept the outcome of the report, though he informed him that he could seek legal recourse to challenge it. “Our responsibility as a provincial government is to communicate the outcome of the report. However, any decision of litigation against the report is within your rights, and if you decide to do so, it is incumbent upon you to inform the department accordingly,” Msibi continued. T he MEC raised his concern about the discord between members of royal families in Mpumalanga, adding that it created instability within affected chieftancies and impeded development initiatives in areas under their authority. ALSO READ: Tender to build a substation in Mhluzi leads to war of words Msibi further encouraged Sello Makgatlo Harries Maloka, the next in line, to strive for unity within the royal family and the development of the local Pankop community in the Dr JS Moroka Local Municipality. The MEC urged the inner royal family to hold a formal meeting to commence Sello Harries Maloka’s recognition as the senior traditional leader of the Bakgatla Ba Mocha Ba Maloka as per the committee and Premier Refilwe Mtshweni-Tsipane’s recommendation.