The Nelspruit Police Station has seen an alarming increase in laptop thefts and robberies since the beginning of the year. Its spokesperson, Capt Zandile Gqawa reported that a number of cases in Kamagugu, Steiltes, Sonheuwel, Westacres and Kaapsehoop. She urged residents to remain vigilant and ensure that all their valuables are safley locked up. On January 15 alone, two incidents of laptop theft were reported at Kamagugu and Steiltest. ALSO READ: Deceased Mbombela car guard’s next of kin sought “On January 15, two suspects entered a Kamagugu house, threatened the victim and his friend and made off with two laptops and two cellphones. “No arrests have been made yet and police are investigating a case of house robbery,” said Gqawa. On the same day a Sonpark woman reported that burglars gained entry to her home by removing a window and stole a laptop.  ALSO READ: Trial date for Mbombela Macadamia Care murder set for July A day later, another laptop theft was reported by a Sonheuwel resident whose sliding door was removed by suspects who made off with a laptop as well. “Similar cases were also reported in Kaapsehoop and West Acres. Police have also received several reports of theft out of motor vehicles where criminals break into cars and steal laptops and other valuables,” she added. The police are urging residents to keep their valuables safe and to refrain from buying stolen goods. ALSO READ: Open manholes dangerous and a ‘litigation waiting to happen’ “There is a suspicion that there may be a market for the laptops and the police are warning those who are working in cahoots with criminals to refrain from their actions.” Gqawa concluded by asking anyone that may have information which may help the police in their investigations, to contact Det Col Ernest Masoka on 082-318-6843 or on 08600 10111. “Alternatively, they can send information via the MySAPSAPP which can be downloaded to any smartphone. All information will be treated with the strictest confidentiality and callers may opt to remain anonymous,” she concluded.