Childhood cancer is a frightening diagnosis that no parent should ever have to deal with. But, unfortunately, it is a reality that many families across South Africa have to come to terms with on a daily basis. These families are facing the toughest battle they will ever have to face – along with their little warrior who is fighting right on the front line, at the heart of the battle. But luckily, these brave children and teenagers, along with their families never have to stand alone. CHOC Childhood Cancer Foundation South Africa is a registered and internationally recognised non-profit organisation (NPO) whose aim it is to provide life changing and all-embracing support programmes to both the child or teenager and their families, from the get-go, once a diagnosis has been given. Their services provide:• Emotional support through their cancer journey – palliative, end-of-life care and bereavement support.• Practical support for patients and families including essential care bags, nutritional food support, bereavement support, accommodation, transport to and from treatments and educational and awareness programmes on the early warning signs of childhood cancer. At any one time CHOC can have over 1 500 children and teenagers in their care, whilst offering psychosocial support to over 1 500 families. As an NPO, it is essential that CHOC receive and sustain the funds to support these courageous children and teenagers, so that they can keep on fighting even when their young bodies are exhausted and hurting. And this is where Flippie, South Africa’s favourite and most-loved CHOC SOLE-dier comes in! Flippie is a flip-flop with a serious passion for compassion who has stepped up to lead the movement to get every single South African – young, old, corporate, casual, from the sea side to the city – to have a heart and wear a sole! All he wants us to do, quite literally, is to kick off our shoes for a day and slip on a pair of flip flops. He is determined to get every one of us to set our toes free, to walk beside our little fighters in solidarity against a disease that needs to know that we will not give up without a fight! Now in its second year, the CHOC Flip-Flop Day is an annual event celebrated on February 12. It is a day of fun and colour because although childhood cancer is in no way lighthearted, South Africans certainly are, and when it comes to our children we need to rally behind them, as CHOC SOLE-diers to truly show that we are a force to be reckoned with. ALSO READ: Dangers of skin cancer not only skin deep “We are so excited for our second Flip-Flop Day,” says Taryn Seegers, communication coordinator of CHOC. “Flip-flops are most certainly a part of almost all of our wardrobes, and who isn’t looking for an excuse to wear them? Now we’re giving the public the chance to show us their heart by wearing a sole to bring some colour to the streets and highlight the importance of the work that CHOC does, and raise some much needed funding, to keep our young South African’s and their families supported through the long and challenging journey that they are facing. Our first Flip-Flop Day raised well over R1,5 million and showed us that it truly is possible to make a massive difference in the lives of these families and we are convinced that this year will be even more successful. Have a heart, wear a sole and set your toes free to stand behind us on February 12.” ALSO READ: Needy kids in Jane Furse receive festive food hampers from Booysendal The campaign will be supported by PNA Stationers as well as Tekkie Town. The public will be able to pop into any of these stores nationwide and grab their Flip-Flop Day sticker. It’s simply never been easier to make a difference. With a donation of R10, every South African can show their heart by wearing their soles! From classrooms to boardrooms, let us walk in our flip-flops for a day to highlight CHOC’s passionate purpose – their refusal to back down and let childhood cancer win. With the support of all of us, our children and teenagers fighting childhood cancer will know that they never have to stand alone. For more information or to purchase your sticker visit www.choc.org.za or pop into your local PNA or Tekkie Town store.