The Botanical Society (BotSoc) of South Africa (NPO 003-394) is a member-driven organisation that offers citizen scientists, amateur nature enthusiasts, the general public, and environmental experts the opportunity to join hands and be a part of the solutions to biodiversity challenges across the country. Its mission is to win the hearts, minds and material support of individuals and organisations, wherever they may be, for the conservation, cultivation, study and wise use of the indigenous flora and vegetation of South Africa. By becoming a member, you help the NPO to continue funding key conservation projects across the country throughout lockdown. “During lockdown we worked hard to implement an efficient new sign-up system in partnership with Webtickets, so that you can renew easily and continue to support the conservation of our biodiversity in South Africa, enjoy the serenity of the botanical gardens, and receive all the benefits that our society offers,” the Botanical Society of South Africa said. “We invite you to have a look at our new membership categories, fees and member benefits here.” The “Couple” categories have fallen away, replaced by “Family” categories, and include membership for two adults (18+) and two pupils (six to 18) automatically in a package. Up to two adult guests and six additional learners can be added to any package once selected. Kids under six are free! Seniors only (65+): Have you been a BotSoc member for more than five years? Please make sure to enquire about the seniors’ loyalty discount. ALSO READ: Premier promises swift action regarding damage BotSoc membership fees will not increase again until April 2022, in recognition of the inconvenience caused by the lack of access to Sanbi gardens during lockdown. To review available payment methods, click here: Membership cards: Once you have renewed your membership, your digital membership “card” will be accessible via your Webtickets account. To download yours, please follow these easy steps: 1. Go to http://www.webtickets.co.za. 2. Log in using the email address you have registered on your existing BotSoc account. If you do not have or recall your password, click “forgot password” to reset (an email will be sent to you to safely create a new password). 3. Once logged in, go to “My Account” and select “My Tickets”. 4. Your membership should appear here. On the “Choose Action” menu select “View Memberships”. 5. These barcoded digital cards can be printed or displayed on your mobile device upon entry to any Sanbi National Botanical Garden. Note that the gate staff may ask for proof of ID (SA ID card or driver’s licence). We recommend saving the digital card to your mobile device, so that you can easily scan in at the gate without the need for a printed paper copy. 6. Should you still wish to have a physical plastic membership card, you can contact Frank Webb on 082-804-3486 for more information. Learn more about what we do on our new website. You can join the Botanical Society through the website. ALSO READ: Themba Hospital’s water issues are a great concern