The global response to the Covid-19 pandemic has been all-consuming, however, these organisations feel cancer control needs to remain a priority.  Sam Chigumbura, the general manager of CANSA Mpumalanga, said, “The CANSA Lowveld office is glad to celebrate World Cancer Day 2021 with our local business partners and the community at large. We are mostly celebrating the milestone that we have taken through lockdown and Covid-19 pandemic to remain focused and steadfast in the fight against cancer. We continue to avail ourselves to our community within hospitals, local communities in townships, through local sporting events and malls.  With volunteer nurses and individuals who have dedicated their time to remain committed to the fight, we would like to continue this fight and dedication to make sure we get into every community and make sure we are available to everyone who needs help as we go forward to imagine a world without cancer.”  For the past two years, World Cancer Day supporters around the world have been sharing their “I Am and I Will” commitments – pledging bold and brave actions to reduce the impact of cancer. Elize Joubert, CANSA CEO, put out the challenge. “In 2021, CANSA celebrates a significant milestone in its 90th anniversary of educating, reducing cancer risk and showing enduring support and care. We’re grateful that we are still making a difference in the lives of those affected by cancer. As part of World Cancer Day, we challenge individuals, families, companies, schools and service organisations to partner and work with CANSA to raise awareness of our vital services so that we can continue helping to build a world without cancer, and to let all cancer patients know that they are not alone. “If you’re not sure where to start, sign up for the World Cancer Day ’21 Days to Impact Challenge’. It takes the proverbial 21 days to create a positive habit. So, for 2021, whether you’re committing to improving your personal health and those of your loved ones, supporting someone with cancer you love, educating yourself about cancer, speaking out against cancer or making history by helping to eliminate cervical cancer, sign up to one of the five challenges to receive daily inspiration and practical guidance,” stated Joubert. Visit www.worldcancerday.org/21DayChallenge and choose a challenge for which to sign up. Receive an email every day with a new activity, inspiration, lesson or prompt. Get closer to fulfilling your “I Am and I Will” commitment and share this on social media using the hashtags #WorldCancerDay, #IAmAndIWill and #CANSA90.    Gous was diagnosed with colorectal cancer in 2007. He had suffered from diverticulitis and 300 millimetres of his large intestine was removed during surgery. After his recovery, he started feeling unwell and went back to hospital. It was then that he was diagnosed. “I knew something was seriously wrong the second time I went back to the hospital,” Gous explained. “When I was diagnosed, everything after that happened at the speed of light.” In the space of one year, after the diverticulitis operation, Gous had developed grade three cancer. “As a Christian, I had no problem with the diagnosis. I accepted it and wanted to start planning the way ahead with the help of God.” Gous started with rehabilitation and the healing process, and also had to learn how to live with a stoma bag. He explained how the nausea had been the worst for him during the chemotherapy. “The oncologist had given me some pills that were supposed to help for the nausea, except they didn’t. I took them for about a month and then told the doctors that I didn’t want the pills – I would handle and control the nausea myself.” During this process, Gous had no close family or friends to support him. “The late Sr Rhona Labuschagne was my pillar of strength. She helped me to join the support groups within CANSA and helped me to learn how to live with the stoma bag,” he said. He had continued support from CANSA in the form of stoma bag supplies, support groups and also the clinical psychologist available to cancer patients and survivors.Gous commented that how one handles the situation is either a fight or flight response. Once a person is diagnosed with cancer, they can either choose to actively fight the disease, or try and run away from the reality and fail.  Ways to help CANSA• Be a cancer advocate. Speak against cancer stigma and myths and speak up for patient and caregiver rights, or raise general awareness of cancer and how to lower cancer risk.• Volunteer. Sign up online to be a CANSA volunteer to help with patients, health awareness or fundraising activities.• Donate. Make an online donation via cansa.org.za (look for the red heart DONATE button), cansa.org.za/cansas-wish-list or become an online champion and raise funds.   