Blessing Mmola of Blessing M Holdings, partnered with Candice-Jade Taljaard of Nody Menstrual Cup and the Nelspruit Correctional Services to donate 100 menstrual cups, one for every woman in correctional services and for those who would join later. The idea came when Mmola hosted another event to donate sanitary pads to schoolgirls of underprivileged communities. Mmola met up with various stakeholders and beneficiaries for the event and it was suggested that a more sustainable approach be taken. Mmola’s solution found her when Taljaard, the distributor/marketer for Nody Mpumalanga, contacted her. “I made contact with Blessing and mentioned that I wanted to donate cups to prisons and schools. She widened the scope of the donations by adding the home bases to the mix,” Taljaard said.  The two prepared the donation as well as handovers to more community projects and schools, and a demonstration to explain how the cup works and how women and adolescent girls should use it. The final recipients of the 450 menstrual cups, valued at R250 each, were Nelspruit Correctional Services (100), Masoyi Home Based Care (50), Hlaisane Home Based Centre (50), Cyril Clarke High School (200) and Khanyisa Mahlentabeni Home Based Care (50). “I feel super blessed and extremely excited to be in a position to bless other lives so positively,” Taljaard mentioned. ALSO READ: Ride for a Child bikers five days in and going strong “At the same time, having a positive impact on the planet, saving people tons of money and improving the comfort, convenience and confidence of women during an unpleasant time of every month. “This was a great experience and a successful one at that. Tarien Badenhorst, owner and founder of the brand, and I hope to take over the world with Nodys. Any woman using a Nody should insist on all the women she knows in her circles to also own and use a Nody. It’s a game changer!”  Taljaard goes on to challenge government and businesses to buy Nody cups. “For every cup bought, one cup is donated. If we can encourage businesses to buy 1 000 for a school, then we can make sure to donate 1 000 to another project.” Mmola said, “Being part of a community means giving back in more ways than one. Brands and local businesses should work together to uplift each other and the less fortunate. “It is so amazing to be able to give as a part of God’s plan and love; the more you give, the more it returns to you. “Thank you to Sheppard Boutique Hotel, Minuteman Press Bedfordview, Oasis and Fourie Digital for their involvement and ensuring the success for this project! I encourage all Mpumalanga brand owners to collaborate or to partner with one another to make a difference in the Mpumalanga community,” Mmola concluded. To get involved with more community projects, contact Mmola on 064-770-1409 or Taljaard on 082-556-2461. ALSO READ: Mpumalanga to receive Covid-19 vaccine tomorrow