Situated alongside the main building, it offers that South African staple, grilled chicken in peri-peri, barbeque or lemon and herb sauce, served with a choice of sides, including pap and sauce, spicy rice, chips, salads and fresh bread. Craft beer, margarita and strawberry daiquiris on tap and alcopops are available, as well as milkshakes, soft drinks, soft serves and hot drinks. “The idea is quick food and hassle-free beverages, served in an informal social setting,” said manager Yvonne Oliver. Oupa Pilane, one of the three directors and founders of the development, said the Swing Café complements the more traditional Lift Café, which offers a full menu of food made to order and an extensive drinks list. “Excitingly, the Swing Café has longer operating hours to enable visitors to enjoy a sundowner, with last orders at around 18:00.” Director James Sheard said the intention is to provide a memorable experience for visitors and to prove to the world that the Panorama Route is not merely a pretty drive on the way to the Kruger National Park, but instead a destination in its own right. The Adventure Hub is the latest in a number of projects undertaken over the past few months to provide an even better experience for visitors. New walkways and decks have been created, particularly around the Big Swing, which now boasts a new launch platform from where jumpers plummet 70 metres down into the gorge. ALSO READ: Here are the region’s latest dam levels The Big Swing, one of the world’s highest cable gorge swings, was acquired by the Graskop Gorge Lift Co in 2019. “We have now completely overhauled the Big Swing, modernising the systems and aesthetically aligned it with the newer buildings on the southern side of the Gorge,” said director Campbell Scott. The viewing lift, which opened in December 2017, remains the primary attraction at Graskop Gorge Lift Co. Another firm favourite is the 52 metre-long suspension bridge that links the northern and southern sides of the gorge.