The most obvious reason to look forward to a baby shower is the gifts. The steady stream of gifts and good wishes showered on the mother-to-be is a special kind of heart-warming generosity.  Gifts might be the highlight of a baby shower for expectant mothers, the guests are usually looking forward to something completely different, but just as sweet. Like any other celebration, dessert is one of the main attractions. Children are equal parts sweet and unique, so it only makes sense to serve a dessert that fits that description. Here are five sweet treats worth serving at a baby shower:  Ice Cream Cake  Baby showers and cake go together like children and cute babygrows. But if you’re going to serve cake, you might as well make it a memorable one. Enter the ice cream cake Dessert connoisseurs know that cake goes well with ice cream, so it’s best to save yourself the hassle of dishing up both desserts separately. Instead of buying a run-of-the-mill cake, go the extra mile and order a customised cake for the special occasion. Don’t forget to include the guest of honour’s favourite toppings, as well as an image and message of your choice.   Ice Cream Sticks  You can’t blame someone for thinking an ice cream stick is the only type of ice cream worth having. Unlike cones that are notorious for dripping and tubs that are a bit OTT, ice cream sticks are the perfect portion of fuss-free sweetness. Apart from the convenience, the variety of flavours is all the more reason to make sure there’s a steady supply of ice cream sticks at your friend or family member’s baby shower.  Cupcakes  These single-serve sweet treats make for easy eating at a baby shower, where guests aren’t typically seated at a table. Cupcakes come with built-in portion control – their size is perfect for guests who want to moderate their sugar intake. One cupcake is usually enough to satisfy most guests, but it’s always a good idea to bake extra cupcakes for the guests with a particularly sweet tooth.    Mini Pies  Savoury pies have their place, just not at a baby shower. Whether it’s something crunchy and unconventional like crunchy apple and ginger crumble pie, or something simple like standard apple pie, palm-sized pastry treats are the perfect dessert to celebrate the upcoming of a bundle of joy.  Milkshake  Milkshakes look like liquid rainbows and taste like frozen happiness. The best thing about this classic dessert-drink combo is how well it goes with your favourite toppings. Crushed chocolate bits, wafers, sprinkles, and caramel are just a few of the toppings you can use to add flavour to your ice cream.  Baby showers have been around for centuries, and for good reason – a new baby is the best excuse to throw a party. If you’re planning to throw a baby shower for someone close to you, make sure there are enough sweet treats to go around.