The Bongani Mountain Lodge, situated in the Mthethomusha Game Reserve on the southern border of the Kruger National Park (KNP), was burned down. In a statement released by the police, the extent of the damage of the property is approximately R9 million. In an interview on The John Perlman Show on 702, one of the directors of the lodge, Steven Schneier, relayed what had happened between Friday and Sunday. The downward spiral of events was sparked on Friday, when, allegedly, a poacher had been shot near the reserve. Schneier said there was some confusion surrounding this.  “The initial report was that someone had been shot near the reserve and there was some uncertainty as to whether the park’s rangers were responsible for the shooting or not. ALSO READ: Poaching numbers are declining, but so are the rhinos “The rangers in fact had denied being involved in a gunfight with anybody, and stated that they had not shot anybody.”  According to Schneier, Bongani Mountain Lodge’s manager had said the SAPS must do their work. “They must do ballistics on the rifles and we need to get to the bottom of what happened.” Before any of that could take place, however, the lodge received a message from the park rangers on the ground that they were under attack by a gang of armed people and were asking for help.  “Our lodge manager tried to reach the police who endeavoured to respond. He tried to reach the senior management of the Mpumalanga Tourism and Parks Agency (MTPA). They did not answer their phones and did not really know what was going on at all.” ALSO READ: White River expected to experience yet another week of water interruptions Bongani Mountain Lodge continued to receive rather panicked phone calls from the park’s rangers until Friday evening.  “They were running low on ammunition until finally when they called him (the manager) at 05:00 and said they were going to have to melt into the bush, because they had no more ammunition and could no longer defend themselves. “Apparently the SAPS arrived at some stage well away from the gunfighting and did nothing to try and stop the attack on their fellow law enforcement agency.”  On Sunday, a group of people arrived, made their way to the lodge and burned it down. Schneier said, “Luckily, we had received an early warning from friends in the community that that was something that might happen. ALSO READ: Local tourism industry feels abandoned “We were able to give early warning to the police that this was something that may be on the cards. Once again the SAPS failed to do anything effective. Apparently, they stood by and watched while the main gate was set on fire, which is about seven kilometres from the lodge.  “Some roadblocks along the access road to the main gate were established, but with the fence that extends for maybe 10 or 15 kilometres, the perpetrators simply came through the fence at different points, made their way up to the lodge by foot and then set it on fire.” By then, Bongani Mountain Lodge’s manager had managed to evacuate the entire staff down to the southern boundary of the reserve to keep them safe.  The police said they had launched a manhunt for the suspects and that the vehicle involved in the incident was a white Mercedes-Benz Vito. The statement from the SAPS described the attack as follows: “It is alleged that people among the group went towards the rooms at the lodge where they reportedly broke several doors and helped themselves to liquor as well as mini fridges that they found. They also damaged some other properties belonging to the lodge in the process.  “The group is said to have also torched some of the rooms as well as stores inside the lodge before fleeing the scene with the stolen items.” A case of arson was opened with other charges being added that include theft, malicious damage to property, as well as public violence. The public is urged to assist the police with information on the whereabouts of the suspects by contacting Det Capt Vusimuzi Thobela on 082-469-1956. Alternatively, call the Crime Stop number on 08600-10111 or send information via the MYSAPSAPP.  According to Schneier, the lodge employs approximately 80 people on a permanent basis at the lodge. “Eighty people who, unfortunately, we will no longer be able to employ.” ALSO READ: Prioritise your health this World Cancer Day The lodge is merely a concession in the reserve, and the MTPA serves as the custodians of the land on behalf of the tribal authority. Schneier said the MTPA’s lack of presence and support has been alarming.  “They have been calling our lodge manager to ask him what was going on. And their people on the ground have also not heard from them for the most part. “People who require their support in order to protect their lives, were generally completely unsupported by senior management.” This incident has various implications.  The reserve has a 12-kilometre shared boundary with the KNP, said Schneier. “This boundary is what they regard as a buffer reserve and, you know, the dominoes begin to fall. If you cannot protect the integrity of a provincial park, and the people who work in it in an official capacity, then what next?”  He asked and answered the question: “Are these national assets actually recognised as being important? And I think the answer is yes, they are.“It is all very well to recognise something as important, but if you don’t have a plan or a strategy on how to grow it, improve it or protect it, then there is not very much hope.”  Talking about the complexities of the relationship an establishment such as Bongani Mountain Lodge has with its surrounding communities, Schneier said these lodges often make the mistake to regard communities as homogeneous entities, which he said they are not. ALSO READ: Community makes a clean sweep of Lowveld towns after Eloise “The community in our surrounding villages, of which there are five or six, has got its own factions and people with very different interests, both economic and political. And with different affinities and beliefs in the value of the neighbouring lodge.  “We are without any doubt the largest employer in the area. And we have significant support in local communities with which we are also very involved.” He described some of their efforts in these communities in partnership with other organisations, focusing on education and specifically providing girls with sanitary products. He said this has made an enormous difference in these learners’ lives.     