A donation of sanitary products worth just over R90 000 was handed over to the organisation on Monday. “There are so many organisations doing much-needed work in our communities that one could support, and we’d love to support them all, but if we all play our part, we can make a big difference. “As SPAR Lowveld we have partnered with GRIP and it is an absolute privilege for us to be able to support the vital work they are doing in helping victims of gender-based violence in our communities. “Once again, in recognition of all they do and to help them in their efforts, we have made a donation of R90 000 worth of SPAR Petals products to assist those in need of care packs. “There are many that need additional assistance and this is our way to again remain involved and to help GRIP to do what they do best,” said Sean Komlosy, divisional marketing executive of SPAR Lowveld. ALSO READ: Themba Hospital’s water issues are a great concern Representatives of GRIP are based at police stations, hospitals and courts, where they support victims of gender-based violence. The support from SPAR will go toward care packages and the services that the volunteers provide to women and children in need. “SPAR has been amazing and I’m so proud to be associated with them. They really do walk the talk against gender-based violence, it’s not just a marketing strategy. They look after the women and children in our community so well. Thank you once again. I am so happy to be here and accept your support,” said acting director and chairperson of GRIP, Barbara Kenyon. The organisation is based in Mbombela and has branches in Masoyi, KaBokweni, KaNyamazane, Hazyview, Tonga/Shongwe, Bushbuckridge, Acornhoek and Mkhondo. Kenyon mentioned during the handover that GRIP has been pushing to be of service in some new areas, and has finally prevailed. “I am very excited that GRIP is expanding its services to areas like Carolina, Lydenburg and Bushbuckridge,” said Zakhele Dlamini, HR executive of SPAR Lowveld. ALSO READ: Waterval Boven ANC councillor in court for alleged attack on policewoman