The Bongani Mountain Lodge saga continues nearly two weeks after the lodge, located within Mthethomusha Game Reserve and bordering the Kruger National Park, was burned to the ground. A case of arson and tampering with government infrastructure has since been opened, with additional charges of theft and public violence being added. Present concerns are for the safety of the animals on the reserve after fencing was damaged. Combining feedback from the police, the lodge and Mpumalanga Tourism and Parks Agency (MTPA), the events leading up to the torching of the lodge seemed to have happened as follows: ALSO SEE: IN PHOTOS: Bongani Mountain Lodge burned down – R9 million in damages According to Hlathi, police from Pienaar SAPS found that there was a number of people and called for back-up from KaNyamazane and KaBokweni. Later in the day, a senior member of the Pienaar SAPS arrived and found the road leading to the lodge barricaded. While they were busy clearing the road, they noticed that the lodge was on fire.Eventually, police and the fire brigade managed to extinguish the blaze. The infrastructure had been severely damaged. ALSO READ: Poaching numbers are declining, but so are the rhinos During the days after Bongani Mountain Lodge burned down, widespread concern reigned on social media for the safety of the animals in the reserve. Hlathi said police received information of poaching taking place on the reserve. Together with MTPA rangers, they responded and discovered nine carcasses,  including impala, nyala, klipspringer and spotted genet. A preliminary probe suggested that the presence of the rangers forced the poachers from the scene and they abandon the carcasses. The SAPS also found and confiscated knives, pots and torches on the scene. Hlathi said the police are optimistic that arrests are eminent. Bongani Mountain Lodge is a concession in Mthethomusha Game Reserve, with the MTPA serving as the custodians of the land on behalf of the tribal authority. This also involves the safekeeping of the wildlife. Nobunga said they are distraught about the burning down of the lodge. ALSO READ: New cafe an exciting development at Graskop Gorge Lift Co “We have been working with law enforcement agencies to ensure that the perpetrators are brought to book. “This incident is receiving our utmost urgent attention. Security will be reinforced at the nature reserve so that law and order can be restored.” The MTPA team is attending to animals on the reserve to avoid any further poaching, and is also replacing the damaged fence. The Aspinall Foundation, supported by Wildtrust, collaborated with the MTPA on February 8 by sending a helicopter to the reserve. Regional director of The Aspinall Foundation, Dereck Milburn, said this was to determine the status of the safety of the wildlife to provide the MTPA with information so that it could deploy additional resources. It has since deployed significant resources to the reserve. “The team did not see any people on the reserve and other than the damage to the lodge and other infrastructure, there was no further indication of incursions.” Milburn said the lodge cannot currently be accessed by road as it has been barricaded with rocks and debris. “There were also people standing at the barricades.” He said his team responded to social media posts about the wildlife in the reserve being at risk. The police statement lastly recognised messages on social media, saying some members of SAPS were reluctant to attend to the fire at the lodge and that an investigation is being conducted.