RE/MAX South Africa shares four date night ideas that can be enjoyed in the comfort of your own home: When you get tired of the same four walls, building a blanket fort is the perfect opportunity to escape from the chaos of the world for just a few moments in a romantic setting. For comfort, fill the fort with plenty of pillows and add some fairy lights to create a comfy and romantic setting in which to watch your favourite films.  Transform the guest room into a makeshift hotel room by adding fancy folded towels and pillow chocolates. Add a coffee station or mini bar to make it feel more authentic. For those who were hoping to travel, decorate the room to match the dream destination – travel to Paris by sticking a picture of the Eiffel Tower over the window, or imagine being on the beach by playing crashing wave sounds for ambient background music. It may not be much, but even just this small change of scenery may be enough to keep the cabin fever at bay.  Creative and introspective couples can take the opportunity to write a letter to their future selves to read at next year’s Valentine’s date night. Write about your experience living through a global pandemic, what it taught you and what you hope the next year will bring. You can also write a second letter to each other to let your partner know how grateful you are to have lived through a pandemic with them by your side.  ALSO READ: Treat your pet to a Valentine’s ‘paw packet’ from SPCA Nelspruit Instead of going to a wine farm or distillery, create your own in-home tasting experience. Choose whichever pairing your partner would prefer and curate the whole experience for them, just like the real deal. For those who prefer decadence, give coffee and chocolate pairing a try, or for an interesting spin on things, you can choose non-alcoholic pairing options, like non-alcoholic beer and biltong pairing, or non-alcoholic sparkling wine and nougat pairing.  ALSO READ: New cafe an exciting development at Graskop Gorge Lift Co “Lockdown has changed many work and living situations, which could be making things more challenging for couples to get along. It can be difficult to work up a spark in a space that feels cramped and just incites arguments. Those wishing they had more space could consult with a real estate professional who can help them find a home within their budget better suited to their new lifestyle,” concluded Adrian Goslett, regional director and CEO of RE/MAX Southern Africa. Source: RE/MAX