Even though the learners must be congratulated, the role of the educators was outstanding too, and deserve a monument. These educators performed above and beyond the call of duty to prepare learners and provide them with the necessary confidence to enter the exam rooms. It would, however, be wrong to only honour the grade 12 educators, because grade 12 is the culmination of a school career. Grade 12 educators could only successfully prepare the learners on the basis of the foundation laid by the educators that had gone before. Grade 12 educators walked the proverbial extra mile during the past few months. In several provinces the marking processes already commenced during December, recommenced on January 4 and concluded on January 22. On January 25, several of these markers reported for duty at schools. It is obvious that they feel the weight of a tough period, and school communities will have to observe them carefully for the signs of exhaustion during the next few months. The following statistics are important milestones for the successful entry to studies and the labour market: It is notable that Umalusi, the body entrusted with quality control of the exam, did not adjust the marks of many subjects. The raw marks of 48 subjects (74%) were accepted, nine were adjusted upwards and eight adjusted downwards. It is a clear indication that the quality of marking and the quality of the exam papers were on standard. A large-scale adjustment of marks would have brought the integrity of the exam in question. It is significant to note that the raw marks for mathematics and physical science were accepted, especially in light of the initial suspicions of large-scale irregularities in connection with these subjects. Against the background of the aforementioned, the role of the 45 000 markers at 141 marking centres cannot be emphasised enough. These educators responded to the call of duty during the height of the second wave of Covid-19. Many of them paid the highest price. The union expressed its condolences with the families of those educators who had passed away during this process. Even though the pass rate is lower when compared with 2019, 440 702 learners passed, 31 305 more than during 2019. The fact that 198 907 learners attained university exemption is indicative that the Class of 2020 worked exceptionally hard. It is likewise important to note that provinces that excelled in comparison with previous years are rural provinces. Much has been said about the value of online teaching models, but the value of the classical method of teaching can never be underestimated as the Free State, a predominantly rural province, is the top-performing province. In this regard attention will have to be given to Mpumalanga, Eastern Cape, Limpopo and the Northern Cape, as less than 30% of their learners attained university exemption. It is important for schools to keep pace with new technology, but the value of interpersonal relationships by and between educators and learners can never be replaced. It will be incorrect to only focus on the Class of 2020 against the background of Covid-19. The Class of 2020 had the advantage of a full grade 11 year to prepare them for the 2020 examination. The Class of 2021 does not have the advantage of the same basis of preparation as a result of the several disruptions experienced during 2020. Schools will have to work extremely hard and focused to prepare the Class of 2021. Hopefully there will be less Covid-19 disruptions during 2021. The assertion is made here that 2020 was an extraordinary year and that it must never be assessed within the framework of normality. It was indeed an exceptionally disruptive year in the history of humanity and undoubtedly schools could not escape the reality. The psychological effect on each and every one was exceptional. Therefore, it is appropriate to honour those educators who passed away during 2020. SAOU congratulates the Class of 2020 and the monumental work performed by educators to lead learners successfully through a disruptive year. Source: SAOU