One minute you are the happiest person in the world, the next, a feeling of regret and fear overwhelms you as years of memorable photos and an endless list of contacts drop to the floor. The reality is, there is a strong possibility that you will at some point in your life drop your smartphone, causing the screen to crack. Luckily for you, you may now rest assured knowing that a repair company, owned and managed by technicians with 20 years’ combined experience in this industry, is ready to take care of it, and, until you receive it back, to make it the company’s highest priority.  What is more, should you not be able to bring in your phone for repairs and you reside within the borders of Mbombela, iTech Repairs will collect and return it should their schedule allow it.  Conveniently situated at Mbombela Square, near the Mpumalanga High Court just off Samora Machel Drive, iTech Repairs has identified a need for a reliable, easily accessible and trustworthy repair centre that offers customers the best quality parts and service available.  “We specialise in Apple, Samsung, Huawei and selected LG devices as well as laptops, MacBooks, iMacs, tablets, iPads and Apple Watches. We keep stock on hand for most of the replaceable parts, but have a vast network of suppliers that allows us to order and receive stock with limited waiting time,” said Marco Vinhas, owner of iTech Repairs.  With over 10 years’ experience in the cell phone industry with corporates such as Vodacom and Nashua Mobile, Vinhas’ knowledge is only surpassed by his passion for all things tech. He is well-known in the community as the go-to guy for anything cell phone-related, and has had a lifelong dream of working with his hands and starting his own mobile repair business in his home town. “We are currently working on stocking preowned devices to assist customers with an option to purchase these should their device not be repairable. And, we are also moving into board-level repairs to assist with data retrieval as well as giving customers the option to have their mainboard repaired if they do not want to purchase a new/preowned device,” he said. iTech Repairs is situated at Shop 1, Building 3, Mbombela Square.     