A state-of-the-art power plant, propelled by piped gas from Mozambique, has been proposed by a private company to be erected near town. Although the environmental impact assessment (EIA) was open for public participation, neither the Nkomazi council nor the business sector of the Onderberg are aware of these ambitious plans, as Corridor Gazette found upon inquiring. However, the proposal was published in sister publications: Lowvelder on October 15 and November 12, and in Mpumalanga News on November 11. Up to date, there have been no objections to the proposed project from members of the public. ALSO READ: Entrepreneurial workshop paves the way for young business people The power plant proposed by DNG Energy, a private energy production company, will produce 620 megawatts of electricity to be fed into the South African power grid, said Nto Rikhotso, spokesperson for the company. The proposed site for this plant is next to the N4, on the right-hand side of the road on the way to Hectorspruit, about one kilometre from Malalane and about two kilometres from the Kruger National Park. This newspaper was handed a bulky copy of the environmental impact study before DNG Energy was contacted. It admitted its plans, which include a proposed development of approximately 500 metres for a 275-kilovolt overhead powerline from the proposed power plant to the existing Eskom Khanyazwe Substation. “The proposed facility involves the development of the power plant, the aboveground gas pipeline from the existing Republic of Mozambique Pipeline Investments Company (Rompco) gas pipeline to the power plant, and aboveground storage tanks to store liquefied natural gas,” added Rikhotso.The gas that will power the project will be transported from Mozambique through the Rompco pipeline. Eskom will be the beneficiary of the electricity produced by the plant. ALSO READ: Dignity restored by donation of pads “The power that we will produce from our project, if approved, will be for the benefit of all South Africans who are electrified. The power would be fed into the national grid and transmitted to various parts of the country under the stewardship of Eskom,” Rikhotso added. “However, as it is fed into the grid at the local Malalane Substation, this will have the effect of significantly strengthening the local grid and helping to contribute to a more reliable local supply of electricity.” The project is still in the assessment phase, which means the interested and affected parties, including Nkomazi Local Municipality and Ehlanzeni District Municipality, have not yet been notified of the plans.“The project is still in the planning and EIA phase, and will only proceed to commencement on receipt of the relevant approvals,” Rikhotso added. ALSO READ: Sinkhole finally causes bridge to collapse In light of limited water availability in the Nkomazi area, DNG Energy said the proposed project’s “water use will be low” and it confirms that all aspects of the project, and as such any potential environmental impacts, including potential water resource impacts, will be investigated. “Our environmental assessment practitioner, and where relevant, suitably qualified water specialists, will be in close liaison with our engineers, the relevant officials at the municipalities and the Department of Water and Sanitation, to ensure that any intended water resource utilisation considers the current and future status of the relevant water resources within the proposed development area.”