Premier Refilwe Mtshweni-Tsipane has dismissed the allegations that her daughter received a distribution tender of R200 million for Covid-19 vaccines. This follows a post that caused a spark on social media on Tuesday. The post stated, “This company which is registered on January 29, 2021, owned by the daughter of Mpumalanga Premier, was given a distribution tender of R200 million for vaccines before they arrived in the country and was paid an upfront payment of R1,5 million on Friday.” The premier’s office released a statement to answer the questions raised by various people. “The premier of Mpumalanga notes with concern the dissemination of fake news alleging the involvement of a member of her family in a company alleged to be the distributing agent for the Covid-19 vaccine. “No member of the premier’s family is involved in an enterprise called ‘JOVA Vaccines Supply’. Such unfounded and disparaging allegations are part of the attempts by individuals or a group of individuals to tarnish the image of the premier. “The peddling of fake news is not only irresponsible, it undermines the efforts of the Inter-Ministerial Committee (IMC) led by the Deputy President to successfully manage the rollout of the vaccines and save lives. The premier reiterated the message of the president that the distribution of the vaccine and all ancillary logistics will be coordinated by the IMC.” In her statement, Mtshweni-Tsipane urged the people of Mpumalanga to afford the IMC sufficient time to outline the distribution of the vaccines to provinces. “I urge the people of Mpumalanga to be vigilant and guard against the dissemination of fake news.” ALSO READ: Mpumalanga premier apologises for mask mishap The provincial DA leader and health spokesperson, Jane Sithole, issued a press statement calling for urgent transparency on the Mpumalanga vaccine rollout plan, “following serious allegations that a company linked to Premier Mtshweni-Tsipane was awarded distribution tenders. Although she has refuted the allegations, including that any of her family members were involved with Jova Vaccine Supply, she must provide the DA and the South African public with proof of her innocence.” ALSO READ: Mpumalanga Premier tests positive to Covid-19 The spokesperson for the Department of Health, Dumisani Malamule, said the department has developed a vaccination roll-out plan as per its guidelines.