It forced parents and educators to innovate and improve current systems to ensure the education mandate is still achieved. Some parents may consider homeschooling as a safe and more productive option.  Homeschooling will include elements of online learning as well as traditional face-to-face teaching. Examining for homeschooling is done by the Independent Examination Board (IEB) and the South African Comprehensive Assessment Institute (SACAI).  Once a child has passed the exam supplied by either of these two bodies, Umalusi will issue a National Senior Certificate (NSC).  There are also many other school-leaving certification options: GED, Cambridge, American High School Diploma, et cetera. Decided on homeschooling – what to do next?  Your child has to be registered with the Department of Education in your province and supply the documentation required by the department. The registration process may take up to 30 days.  Strauss & Co’s sale of the property of a Johannesburg book designer, running from March 1 to 8, is unprecedented in the premier auction house’s history. Featuring an eclectic array of paintings, prints, sculptures and furniture, and more than 100 rare and exciting books on art, design, photography and architecture, the lots on sale come from the collection of an international award-winning specialist designer active in the United Kingdom, South Africa and Southeast Asia over the last 35 years. The covetable books, mostly grouped into bulk lots of up to 20, at rock-bottom estimates, are a dazzling collection that will appeal to art and book lovers alike. What other opportunity will there ever be to acquire a single lot of eight collectable books on the work of iconic South African photographer David Goldblatt? Or 11 books on British abstract modernist sculptor Sir Anthony Caro? Or nine seminal books of South African art market luminary William Kentridge? A few uncommon collectibles, such as Hockney’s Alphabet (David Hockney and Stephen Spender, Faber & Faber, 1991) and Battiss 75 (Murray Schoonraad and Pieter Duminy, D & S, 1981) are going on sale as stand-alone items, and a unique lot of 11 South African art books, signed by artists and authors including Esmé Berman, Cecily Sash, Alf Kumalo and Norman Catherine, is bound to attract energetic bidding during the week-long sale. The art lots going under the hammer include a drawing by Alexis Preller of the Slit Drum that appears in his major series of kraal paintings executed in the late 1940s, and a select archive of Preller memorabilia includes exhibition catalogues from 1947 and 1972 and the auction catalogues from the estate sales of the artist and his partner Guna Massyn in the 1970s. Two standout works depicting horses by Noria Mabasa, doyenne of South African ceramic sculpture, are bound to attract private and institutional interest, and two unusual works by Joni Brenner indicate the depth of this thoughtful contemporary artist’s creative practice. A collection of both large-scale exterior and diminutive tabletop pieces by Cape-based abstract sculptor Rodan Kane-Hart that investigate the infinite possibilities of geometric composition, will delight collectors familiar with his work and attract a myriad of new devotees. Other artists represented in the sale include Allen Jones, Henry Moore, Lucas Nkgweng, Richard Serra, Cecily Sash, Cecil Skotnes, Diane Victor and Edoardo Villa. The online-only sales opens on Monday March 1 at 08:00 and closes the following Monday March 8 at 20:00. Registration and bidding is easy and accessible on the Strauss & Co website at www.straussart.co.za. For more information, please contact Strauss & Co’s Johannesburg office at 011-728-8246 or jhb@straussart.co.za.  At Boston City Campus, we are serious about education. We believe that your education provider should be an expert and your qualification should be world-class. It is our job to make sure that you get what you need to achieve your dreams and we have a no-fuss approach. We offer accredited higher-education qualifications, including our state-of-the-art postgraduate diploma in management, a range of degrees and numerous diplomas and higher certificates. We also provide a variety of work-ready occupational and short programmes that meet industry needs and are developed by industry specialists and leading professionals in their fields. We know you will face challenges when studying, and we believe personal attention is critical to your success, so we use a proactive monitoring and mentoring system designed to support your learning. Student advisers and online educators are available to help you every step of the way. At Boston, we focus on two things: We are experts in helping you to get where you need to be. It is our purpose.