CMLM posted an update on its Facebook page today stating it is still grappling with water issues in the town and is working to fix them. “The Mbombela augmentation scheme is still running low due to the canal breakage. Water will be supplied as the reservoirs pick up at Boschrand reservoir,” said the update. “Water will be supplied intermittently until the raw water is normalised. This seems like it might take a week again. Our apologies for this ongoing, unfortunate situation.” However, with White River residents experiencing a sixth day without water and still undergoing intermittent electricity issues, they have said they are frustrated with how the matter is being dealt with and the lack of communication from CMLM to the community. Lowvelder had sent questions to the municipality earlier this week regarding the issues surrounding the water problems and electricity outages. ALSO READ: Death toll continues to rise as a result of flooding in Mpumalanga Municipal spokesperson Joseph Ngala said he was gathering information regarding the water situation in White River and would respond in time. Meanwhile, frustrated community members took to the Lowvelder Facebook page to express their outrage. Jessica Joubert Rosewarne posted: “Six days now… and still no water… and no reasons given as to what the problem is or when we will have water again.” Glauda Goosen also posted on Facebook: “Five days without water. Lucky for me we have a borehole and swimming pool. Borehole is not connected to the house, but water can be carried. We swim every day with shampoo and soap in hand. Other people don’t have that luxury.” Another Facebook user, Marlene van Der Merwe, said she had also been six days without water. “So many different stories as to why we don’t have water. This is such a huge health risk. Not to mention Covid still being a huge factor. Last night we could not even buy water as the shops had run out. The tanker only supplies water during the day when everyone works. I can go on and on.” ALSO READ: Premier dismisses claims of alleged vaccine distribution tender as fake news