Wedding planning website The Knot recently released its projected wedding trends for 2021, labelling it the “year of intentionality”. This means that weddings in the coming year will be hyper-personalised and focus on experiences rather than aesthetics. Maureen “Nono” Skosana, founder and chief executive of event planning company, Nono Events, said, “Given Covid-19 restrictions where events are limited to 50 guests, micro weddings are now massive. While the guest list and booze bill may have dwindled or disappeared completely, the cost to create an intimate but memorable experience has not. Some vendors are increasing their fees to accommodate complex logistics, inflation and to keep their businesses afloat. Also, when you used to buy or order in bulk, you saved. That is not the case anymore, which is putting pressure on the budget.” Nono Events, with the help of Budget Insurance, has put together a guide to budgeting for a stylish micro wedding that will not break the bank: 1. Commit to a wedding budget  When you start planning your wedding, first have a look at the state of your finances and set an overall limit of how much you can spend. Keep your expectations realistic and stick your limit. This is not the time to be shy about money – if something is unaffordable, say so. 2. Avoid debt Start your married life with your finances intact. Do not go into debt to pay for the day. This also means not dipping into savings that have a specific purpose, such as a new house. 3. Package deals Select a package deal from one supplier if possible, instead of using different suppliers. Be honest and discuss your budget with your preferred supplier; this will enable them to work out an appropriate cost-saving package. 4. RSVPs Make sure that you have proper RSVP processes in place. A proper process will help manage catering costs and other expenses. 5. Know what everything costs Make a detailed list that includes everything from the venue, food, decor and drinks up to beauty treatments and hair styling for the big day. Decide what you would like and find out how much these things cost. The more effort you put in, the better you can budget and plan, and see where you can save or cut. 6. Marriage is all about compromise  Start early and draw up a list of what will make your wedding memorable and special, and what you could do without. ALSO READ: COMPETITION: Love is in the air for Mbombela’s couples – even lockdown cannot halt it! 7. Practical party favours  Instead of spending a fortune on traditional thank-you gifts, consider something more practical and cost-effective like a small plant. ALSO READ: CANSA gets creative with coins for hope and support 8. Check the Ts & Cs Government regulations during Covid-19 regarding events are subject to change. Be sure to scrutinise your venues policy on cancellations or postponements. ALSO READ: If your anxious experiences are becoming intolerable there are certain signs you should not ignore “At a time where budgets are already stretched to the limit, couples need to ensure that they have their dream day without breaking the bank. Remember, the wedding is not the end, it is the beginning. The marriage is what counts. The best way to start a marriage is in financial health and with a commitment to building a secure future together.” said Susan Steward of Budget Insurance. Source: Budget Insurance