This is Mtshweni-Tsipane’s third reshuffle since she has taken office. The last time she did so was in 2018 when she moved MEC Gillion Mashego from the Department of Health to the Department of Public Works, Roads and Transport (DPWRT).  She also moved MEC Sasekani Manzini from DPWRT to health. This time round, Mtshweni-Tsipane fired Mashego and kept Manzini in her position as the health political head. Pat Ngomane, the former MEC for finance, economic development and tourism, was also axed. He will be replaced by Vusi Mkhatshwa, an ANC Youth League graduate. Making a return is Speedy Mashilo who has been roped in to serve as the new MEC for human settlements. The former social development political head, MEC Busi Shiba, has now been tasked with overseeing the Department of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs (Cogta).  Mtshweni-Tsipane’s surprise of the day was the announcement of Mohita Latchminarain being appointed as the new MEC for public works, roads and transport. Surviving the chop were MECs Bonakele Majuba, Mandla Msibi, Vusi Shongwe and Thandi Shongwe. Majuba retained his position as MEC for education, while Msibi was promoted to the Department of Agriculture, Rural Development, Land and Environmental Affairs (Dardlea). Vusi was moved from Dardlea to the Department of Community Safety, Security and Liaison while Thandi moved to the Department of Culture, Sport and Recreation. ALSO READ: Public asked to help locate missing woman She had originally been with the Department of Social Development. Regarding these changes, Mtshweni-Tsipane said she had wanted to ensure that government delivers better services to the people of Mpumalanga while at the same time calibrating the provincial economy. ALSO READ: Build it is ready to offer the best services to locals “I have also taken into account a number of considerations, key among those are members who embodied hard work, commitment, integrity, and non-negotiable commitment to improving the lives of our people.”