The Parliamentary Village construction on a section of the Woodhouse Farm in the city has stopped again. The project is being built for members of the legislature. Bongani Dhlamini, the Mpumalanga Department of Public Works, Roads and Transport’s spokesperson, confirmed that the operation has come to a halt. “It has stopped due to community unrest. There are certain members of the public alleging that the Matsafeni Trust did not include them on the payment of the land. It is a matter between the trust and the community.”   The then MEC for finance, Sikhumbuzo Eric Kholwane, had announced this project during his budget speech for 2016/17. Dhlamini said the venture is almost 60% complete and so far about R300 million has been spent. The site measuring just over 50 hectares was purchased for R30 million. This project is one of the undertakings in Mpumalanga that has missed its estimated completion date. The estimated time of completion was April. Construction began in November 2017. “Its completion has been affected by various issues which include several preliminary technical approvals, the Covid-19 lockdown and its related shortage of construction material. There has been continuous community unrest and disruptions.  The revised completion date is March 2022, if there are no further disruptions and delays of any kind. With the continued support from key stakeholders in particular the community, the department will be able to conclude the project in the current financial year as indicated above,” he said. Clear Choice Builders is the contractor that is currently working on site; it is responsible for the main building works. Lowvelder contacted it, however, it said it could not comment. “Only the department can comment when it comes to this project. We are not authorised to do so.” ALSO READ: Full marks for educator vaccine administration In July 2020, the Matsafeni board had refused to sign the transfer until the department had settled an outstanding amount. ALSO READ: Mpumalanga SAPS employees to receive Covid-19 vaccine on Thursday By the time of going to press, the newspaper had not managed to reach the Matsafeni Trust for comment.