Residents have yet again taken to social media to vent their frustrations about noise and curfew breaking in the city. The Facebook group Mbombela Electricity, Water Roads and any Service Delivery Information is one of the main sources where these continued complaints can be found. Judging by multiple posts by various residents in and outside of town who claim to hear music from clubs well after curfew, establishments are still partying at will. ALSO READ: Restaurant industry to contend with stricter curfew and survive alcohol ban This is in contrast with what both the police and the City of Mbombela have said. According to Brig Leonard Hlathi, provincial SAPS spokesperson, they have not recently had any incidents with previously accused establishments. Thulani Mkhabela, senior manager for public safety law enforcement and security at the municipality, stated they had not received any new complaints regarding noise. ALSO READ: Nelspruit SPCA temporarily closed due to Covid-19 case Residents have, however, expressed their dissatisfaction with the two entities. They are wanting to get the attention of someone as high up as Police Minister Bheki Cele to solve this problem. In the background, Cllr Tersia Marshall had been gathering signatures for the petitions against both the Coyotees in the city as well as The Prestige Lifestyle Grand. Signatures have reached a total of 1 227. She mentioned that there were more coming in after the deadline had been reached, but she will not be accepting these as it would not be fair to the establishments in question. Marshall mentioned that with the new regulations in place for the immediate future, she thinks places will quieten down. “Personally, I think we will only be able to do something again when the places pick up speed again.” She also mentioned that the party had recently moved to student accommodation, and that these places are also getting out of hand. ALSO SEE: WATCH: Car crashes into tow truck, then Midas property In the meantime, the owner of Prestige has agreed to an interview with Lowvelder in the near future to discuss how he had recently changed his ways. Businesses that operate close to Prestige admitted that this establishment had drastically decreased its sound.