More than 21 819 teachers and support staff in Mpumalanga have received the Covid-19 jab. This is according to the provincial Department of Health. The spokesperson for the department, Dumisani Malamule, on Monday said, “There are 20 821 educators and support staff who are still going to receive the vaccination”.   The MEC for education, Bonakele Majuba, and the MEC for health, Sasekane Manzini, officially launched the programme last Wednesday. The Department of Basic Education has been allocated 582 000 vaccines countrywide that were supposed to be administered in six days from June 23. In Ehlanzeni District there are four vaccination sites, KaNyamazane EDC, White-Hazy EDC (Numbi), Shongwe EDC and Nkomazi EDC. In Bohlabela District there are three sites, Kellysville Primary School (Lydenburg), Panorama High School (Sabie south) and Bushbuckridge cluster (Bohlabela District office). Majuba was the first from the education department to receive the vaccine. This vaccination programme is targeting 34 172 teachers, 7 667 non-teaching staff, 2 657 SGB-employed teachers and ECD practitioners and 1 742 teachers from independent schools. Joe Schoeman of Nelspruit Primary School recently received the Johnson & Johnson vaccine at KaNyamazane. “We arrived at around 09:00 and we were in the queue for about four hours. The service was good and the people from the Department of Health were very nice. It was great to see a service delivered by the government going so well,” he said. Schoeman said his experience was great and he had minor side-effects. “I had a headache and it was nothing major,” he explained. Mpumalanga Department of Education spokesperson, Gerald Sambo, said, “The plan is that the vaccination of teachers should be completed by July 8”. ALSO READ: Department of Roads urges public to avoid gambling with their lives “The department is impressed with the manner in which the vaccination programme is unfolding. Although the vaccination is voluntary, we continue to urge our teachers to get vaccinated because this will assist their immune system to fight against the pandemic should they be infected,” he said. ALSO READ: Mpumalanga health MEC monitors medicine stock levels at three health facilities