MBOMBELA – The manager of the Mpumalanga Referees’ Society, Oubaas Coetzer (66), kicked the ball of love high into the night sky at Mbombela Stadium last Friday, and it was caught, uncontested, by the match statistician and his now-fiancée, Adrie van Lill (60). At half time in the Carling Currie Cup match between the NNC Pumas and the Tafel Lager Griquas had ended, the stadium announcer, Robin Jansma, took Adrie by the hand and led her to Oubaas who was standing on the field. He dropped to one knee, opened the box of an engagement ring, and asked her to be his bride. She said “yes”. The retired police warrant officer had investigated the matter well. “I had a few ideas in my mind, but as I am very much involved rugby, and knowing that Adrie is extremely supportive I thought it was a great idea. “Knowing that crowds are not allowed (at the stadium) I trained and registered Adrie as an official doing match statistics, so that she had to he present during a home Pumas game at Mbombela Stadium. I planned it about two weeks ago,” said Oubaas. He was nervous that he would receive a red card. “I was not sure she was going to say ‘yes’ as she was a little hesitant when she was called to join me on the field. She was standing a bit far from me when I did the proposal. I was overwhelmed (when she said ‘yes’), and relieved. I had tears of joy in my eyes.” Adrie was expecting a pass from Oubaas and immediately realised she had to receive it with both hands, and her heart. “I saw Oubaas standing on the field, talking to Robin, and then Oubaas took the mic and Robin walked towards me and took my arm and asked me to walk with him. My heart started beating and I knew that moment Oubaas was about to propose. When I looked into Oubaas’ beautiful blue eyes and I saw tears. I knew my answer would be ‘yes’,” she said. It did not take long for the word spread on social media. “The messages (on social media) were amazing; there was an overwhelming reaction we did not expect. It was the most likes and comments I have ever received on Facebook. We are so grateful for every message of congratulations.” Adrie concluded, “Oubaas, you are the friend I have been praying for my whole life”. Oubaas and Adrie are planning their ticker-tape parade for December. It’s a match made in heaven. Adrie vertel hoe hulle ontmoet het Oubaas en ek is aan mekaar voorgestel deur baie goeie vriende. Ek is familie van hulle en Oubaas is deel van hulle selgroepie. Ek was vier jaar enkellopend en Oubaas se vrou is oorlede. Ons albei het geweet ons het weer iemand in ons lewens nodig, maar om die regte persoon te kry om saam te lewe was nie maklik nie. Ek het vir tydtjie in Mbombela kom kuier, en ek en Oubaas het vir ongeveer ‘n maand lank per foon gekommunikeer. Ons het toe geweet hier is ‘n spark tussen ons. Ek en die vriendin het per City Bug na Mbombela, waar sy ook woon, gereis. Toe ek Oubaas sien toe ek van die City Bug-bussie afklim en in sy blou oë kyk, het ek geweet… hierdie is my trouman. Ek was onmiddellik verlief. Ek het geweet ek het my man ontmoet.