Six of Mbombela’s taxi associations are standing their ground, vowing to defend and protect their livelihoods following ongoing looting and vandalism of property countrywide. The City of Mbombela released a statement this morning in which it said, “The City’s law enforcement officials, in partnership with the taxi associations and other stakeholders, have resolved to conduct patrols and isolate these elements in a society whose sole intention is to cause havoc for their own selfish reasons. “It is clear these acts of vandalism and looting are motivated by hooliganism and criminality,” said the statement. ALSO READ: Police call for calm amid rumours of looting and violence The South African National Taxi Council Mpumalanga’s Muntu Gama confirmed the council’s support of the City standing its ground against potential looters. The statement said the City appreciates the leadership provided by the associations and other stakeholders to ensure their livelihoods are protected. “City of Mbombela condemns these acts in the strongest terms and will support any initiative that seeks to uphold the rule of law and maintains order.” ALSO READ: Police save the day as lawlessness spreads to Lowveld Meanwhile, KLCBT’s Linda Grimbeek urged people to stop spreading fake news about rioting in various parts of Mpumalanga. “There is, again, a lot of fake news doing the rounds to warn people about riots. We can confirm there is nothing like that going on in Mbombela or White River. Please do not share any such posts,” said Grimbeek. Monday afternoon saw incidents of looting at Nelspruit Plaza’s TOPS, KaBokweni Plaza, KaNyamazane Plaza, Emoyeni Mall and Dayizenza Mall; however, the police quickly contained the situation and dispersed the crowds before too much damage could be caused. Other incidents of looting in Matsulu were reported at its Boxer, KFC, Pep Cell, Rage and Build it outlets late last night (July 12); however, the police were soon present at these scenes to control the situation.