After having suffered heart failure approximately eight months ago, Dave Croxon passed away peacefully in his retirement village on the June 18. He is survived by his wife of 57 years, Joy, three sons Paul, Mark and Nigel and six granddaughters, who will all miss him dearly. Born in Barberton on August 17, 1940, Dave was actively involved in the motor industry for more than 60 years and is synonymous with Croxon’s Garage Barberton. ALSO READ: IN PHOTOS: MEC Vusi Shongwe launches vaccinations of over 11 000 SAPS employees According to his son Mark, Dave loved cars, but his true passion lay with trucks. Dave successfully sold many Mercedes-Benz cars and trucks to his Lowveld and eSwatini customers for many years. He started managing the family business as a General Motor franchise and then in the early 70s he had the great vision to switch to the Mercedes-Benz franchise. The business flourished for many years thereafter. Even after his official retirement at 65, Dave continued selling Mercedes-Benz trucks and was still seen buying and selling trucks at a local auction at the age of 80. When it came to his golfing career, Dave did not hold back at all. Lowvelder has reported on his achievements and tributes from as far back as the late 1970s. ALSO READ: Rehab project makes river a fly-fishing haven He started playing golf as early as 1954. During his career he captained both provincial and national teams and won championship upon championship. Dave was also the first golfer from the Lowveld to achieve Springbok colours. All this he did while being a role model to his children and grandchildren alike. When his granddaughters speak of him it is as though they speak from one mouth, with praise being their ultimate goal for this man whom they so admired. An emotional Jess started off their tribute. “I think it is safe to say that none of us would be the people we are today without our grandfather. He taught us all so much and for that we should be eternally grateful. “He managed to put up with six enthusiastic granddaughters and one of his favourite things to say was that he was the thorn among all the roses. “When it came to us girls, you were always selfless and always ready to help when needed but most of all you were there when we needed advice. You were at every netball match, every athletics meeting and at every gala, always motivating and showing us how proud you were of us.” ALSO READ: Feathered friends feature in Hans Bornman’s new book Jade followed with admiration for her grandfather’s life. “Grandpa, you lived a remarkable life, one that inspired us greatly. Your adventurous spirit, broad range of interests and humorous demeanour made you a wonderful grandpa. You taught us to never to be afraid of anything and to respect all people, regardless of their backgrounds.” Brooklyn concluded the granddaughters’ tribute. “We cannot thank you enough for all the joyful memories and trips to the Kruger Park. We are thankful for all the times you took us under your wing whenever we were going through tough times. “Your mischievous humour and gentle smile will be missed the most. So, rather than ending off with a goodbye, I will see you by the tree.”