A beautiful melody by trumpeter Sipho Dumisa, affectionately known as Stix, is difficult to miss when visiting i’langa Mall. His rousing performances are awe-inspiring as his notes float through the air, which more often than not involves passers-by breaking into dance before rewarding him for his talent. This self-taught artist believes in working hard to achieve one’s dreams. “I am not willing to sit at home while waiting for my destiny,” he told Lowvelder during an interview. His first trumpet encounter was in the Salvation Army Church when he was only seven. “From that very moment I wanted to learn to play the instrument. I never stopped trying until one day I managed to play a melody,” he explained. He is now able to play all the brass instruments and drums. Stix is based in Barberton after recently moving there from Nkomazi where he had lived since he was 11. As a local artist who has shared the stage with well-known South African artists such as Lira, Oskido and Sipho “Hotstix” Mabuse, he one day wants to release an album of his own.   He said his greatest highlight so far on his musical journey was when he shared a stage with well-known American choir director, gospel singer, songwriter and author Kirk Franklin in 2007. Dumisa’s future dream includes starting an organisation for Mpumalanga artists. This 34-year-old is also a part-time music teacher at Uplands College. “I offer private classes to the pupils and I also have students from other schools, too,” he said. “I would be happy to see us working in unity. I have seen how artists in KwaZulu-Natal support one another and I think if we can have similar relations in this province, we can all achieve great things,” he said. The trumpeter warned upcoming artists to avoid signing contracts that they do not understand. “I once signed a contract and due to my lack of understanding, I sold one of my songs. I only got R10 000 out of the entire deal. I still hear my song playing on well-known radio stations, but I have nothing to show for my hard work,” he explained. Stix added that Covid-19 is putting pressure on artists and he is grateful for the people who support his music. ALSO WATCH: Stix’s smooth trumpet-playing awes passers-by “It is not easy to make ends meet when we are not getting booked for gigs. I do not know how I would survive without the help from Henri Gouws of i’langa Mall, Shabbisto Mavuso, Nelly Maphosa, Zinto Nkuna and S’bu Sithole. ALSO READ: Department urges the public join Clear Rivers Campaign to keep rivers clean There are many other people who have been supporting me, I truly appreciate all of them,” he said. If you would like to see Stix perform, you can contact him on 079 753 9988 or email him at stixdumisa@gmail.com.