The Lowveld’s most notorious alleged rhino-poaching kingpin was laid to rest on June 27, surrounded by hundreds of his loved ones and admirers under heavy police presence. The alleged gangster and “rhino horn kingpin”, Petros Sydney Mabuza, also known as Mshengu, was shot while sitting in his car in Hazyview on June 17. He was rushed to Kiaat Private Hospital where he was pronounced dead. Since the shooting, the police have launched a manhunt to find the culprits and had been on high alert for potential violence leading up to and at Mabuza’s funeral on Sunday (June 27). This was evident by the two police blockades one had to drive through to get to the funeral at Alexandra Sports Grounds. Vehicles entering the blockade, mostly luxury cars, were stopped and searched by the police. ALSO READ: We cannot work without cars – SAPS A police officer present at the blockade said the funeral was peaceful due to the massive police presence. Cars and taxis branded with “R.I.P Nduna” and “R.I.P Mshengu” were seen driving through Hazyview on Sunday morning toward Marite. Mabuza’s 300-kilogram casket arrived at the funeral by helicopter. It was a send-off fit for a king as his casket was covered in various animal skins and lowered into a tiled and bricked grave site. ALSO READ: Community works together to clean vlei in West Acres The entire funeral was live-streamed on YouTube with two video production companies present on Sunday to capture the emotional scenes and poignant words of scores of speakers at the funeral. Speaker after speak said how wonderful, kind, caring and giving Mabuza was, with people sharing stories of how he had paid school fees and university fees for many students in the area. Speakers also said that he loved cars and bikes. A KaBokweni-born poet, Dominic the Poet, sang the Mabuza clan praises when Mabuza’s casket alighted from the helicopter and was lowered into his final resting place. “Bhoza ya mabhoza ngiyetsetsemba tindlebe takho atikavaleki uyangiva la ukhona” said the poet which means “the boss of bosses, I hope you can still hear me where you are”. Others were heard saying Mabuza must fight for himself and does not leave his enemies even in his grave. He started his loan shark business in 1994. He had been in the taxi industry since 1998.