Annie’s introduction to the public came in the form of a Facebook post when the SPCA first posted her with a first-person narration of her experience as she was found and taken to the safety of the kennels. Although she was now safe, fed and warm, she had a long road ahead filled with visits to the vet. Miraculously, she had no organ damage, considering her severe emaciation. There were some other issues, but medication was provided for this. True to their word, the SPCA’s staff kept the public up to date on Annie’s progress. ALSO READ: Mpumalanga on top of pandemic, for now A mere three days after her arrival, she was seen in a warm and fluffy pink jacket to protect her from the cold.  She was eating well, wagging her tail and showing a strong dislike for office cats. In the meantime, Royal Canin SA had offered to sponsor Annie’s food. Throughout the process, the SPCA thanked its supporters and Dr Christo Nortje for their amazing assistance without which Annie’s recovery would not have been possible. ALSO READ: Pumas reign supreme against Griquas at Mbombela Stadium Early in March it was reported that she had gained 800 grams and the following week 500 grams more. This meant she had reached her minimum weight of 10 kilograms.  Her ears and skin were healing and she was described as a happy dog. In between she could be seen being taken for a walk by the SPCA staff. Week by week Annie’s visits to Van Wijk Street Animal Hospital yielded positive results and soon she was at a healthy enough weight to get vaccinated. ALSO READ: Suspected poacher reportedly wounded in the Kruger She was not without her “problem child” moments, though; the public saw photos of her bed that had “exploded” in mid-March surrounding her with clouds of stuffing. Cleaning up the mess was not fun, but it made for a great photoshoot.    By April 23 she had reached a weight of 13,2 kilograms and Nortje was happy with the progress. Aside from being treated for an infection, she was almost on her way to being sterilised, which would bring her one step closer to being available for adoption. ALSO READ: Fred en Hannetjie Kinnear sal deur vele onthou word Throughout May and most of June, Annie was patiently waiting for her forever family to realise they needed her in their lives, and on June 26 the wait was over.  Although they will miss her, the SPCA’s staff members are overjoyed that their special girl finally got the home she deserved.