The identified children are often cared for by their mothers, who are mostly single parents who cannot work because they look after their children during the day. She recently visited five families in Kamajika, Jerusalem, Phola, and Numbi townships to deliver much-needed assistive devices. These devices were obtained with the help of various sponsors as well as the foundation’s fundraising campaigns on social media. One of its biggest sponsors is Giving Back 2 our Community (GB2C), a local initiative started by Nelspruit Crossing Centre two years ago. Several other local businesses form part of GB2C, namely BUCO Nelspruit, Caltex, the Omar Family, the Tom le Roux family, Crossing SUPERSPAR and the Visagie Group, among others. Pine Lake Resort also sponsored some of the devices for this recent outreach. Beukes works closely with Sanele Ndlovu, a resident of one of the townships, who helps her identify children in need. Ndlovu runs her own non-profit organisation called Siban Esihle that focuses on feeding the poor and needy, as well as supplying sanitary products to girls in need. Beukes expressed her joy by saying, “I wish I had all the right words to express the joy and gratitude felt throughout the day. The smiles on these warriors faces, the excitement and giggles of their siblings, and the deep gratitude of the mothers”. The foundation aims to help every child on its list of 68 children. This list keeps growing daily. It does not only focus on children with spina bifida, but also cerebral palsy. Beukes writes the following of the families.  “Prince is a six-year-old boy who shuffles around on his bum, but is very keen to stand and enjoy the freedom of an upright position. “Innocent, his mother, was extremely happy for the donation. Their closest therapy clinic is not allowing outpatients to attend therapy due to Covid-19. Innocent is very aware of just how important it is for our warriors to receive therapy. She was truly delighted to receive some form of therapy for her child. “The foundation thanks Pine Lake Resort for its sponsorship of the standing frame for Prince.”  “A moment I will never forget. In absolute excitement, Gotlelelo came crawling towards his wheelchair when we arrived. His mother, Mahlatsi, told us that he had been waiting all morning for us. “Gogo was just as happy to see us, so very happy for her grandson. You could see that Gotleleo was so chuffed to be off the ground and comfortably seated in his new wheels. “The foundation thanks Pine Lake Resort for its sponsorship of Gotlelelo’s wheelchair.”  “If ever I’ve seen a happy smile it was that of Sandiso’s. Sandiso, now ten years old, was so happy to be standing. He non-verbally made it very clear to his siblings that the frame is his. “I’m sure he is also glad to be off the floor and at a higher level and eye contact position with his siblings. Standing upright gives our warriors much confidence as opposed to always being on the floor and looking up to their peers. “Sandiso’s siblings were full of giggles and excitement for their older brother; so very special to witness. “A heartfelt thank you to Pine Lake Resort for sponsoring Sandiso’s standing frame. The joy you have brought to this beautiful warrior can be seen in his smile.  “Nine-year-old Kanyasile is just the sweetest little warrior, full of smiles and so interactive. I so desperately wish she could receive stimulation through therapy. She has so much untapped potential. “Her mother Prudence was overjoyed to receive a mobility device for her daughter. “Special needs moms take a lot of physical strain as their warriors grow. “Thank you to #GB2C for making life easier for Prudence. Thank you for giving Kanyasile the gift of mobility. She was so happy to be in the wheelchair.  “We are so grateful to a recent donor, who wishes to remain anonymous, who donated R20 000 to our foundation. It helped another warrior by donating a wheelchair. “Reitometsie was so happy to be seated in his new wheels. He is non-verbal, but swayed his head from side to side in approval. “His older brother was just as excited and couldn’t wait to take his sibling for walks outside. ALSO READ: Lowvelder Entrepreneur of the Week: Peta King-de Wet “Thank you for seeing our cause and the need and for opening your hands to help others. We are so grateful for the happy smile on our new warrior’s face and for the difference you have made in his life.”