“It has come to our attention, as Coyotes Group, that we have been associated with noise pollution and breaking curfew rules. So we have decided to postpone all events that have been scheduled for this weekend, to make sure that Covid-19 rules are fully implemented. Yes, we operate as an outdoor amusement park, but we did make sure of our patrons’ safety. With regards, please stay on our timeline for further updates on our operations,” the group said in a message on its Coyotes Lounge Facebook page. This decision follows a series of articles published in Lowvelder about noise complaints from Mbombela residents. Apart from the noise, many complained about these establishments operating outside curfew hours, too. Despite Lowvelder’s article on these noise complaints against three establishments in town, the issue persists. Both the City of Mbombela Local Municipality and the Nelspruit SAPS visited these venues over the previous weekend. ALSO READ: Noise complainants crank up the volume “We are aware of the complaints about noise coming from some establishments around the city. The City has, through a multidisciplinary team comprised of other stakeholders, visited these establishments unannounced and served them with notices, and will continue to do so. “During these visits, it was clarified that continued contraventions of the City’s by-laws may lead to operating licences being revoked,” he said. Lowvelder and DA councillor Tersia Marshall also visited the establishments. It was found that, despite the police presence, all three of these were, firstly, open past 23:00, which is the prescribed closing time for restaurants according to the Disaster Management Act, and secondly, open past 00:00, which is when all citizens are supposed to be inside their homes, according to the same Act.  According to Brig Leonard Hlathi, provincial spokesperson for the SAPS, these establishments have been issued fines. These fines can be as much as R5 000. In line with what the municipality said, Hlathi said they are running the risk of losing their licences.  When asked about the police’s actions when they witness these establishments operating outside curfew hours, he replied they were mainly there to gather evidence and not necessarily to instantly close these places down. “It has happened in the past at other venues that our officers have been assaulted by people who had been drinking. There has also been damage to vehicles during these incidents.”