“Not everything in the quest to disrupt is in fact disruptive. The focus should be on how to innovate through value. Without trust, a team cannot exist, much less function effectively.” This is the wise advice by customer experience mentor, Dr Durrel Ramrathan, and it so resonates with the intention and customer experience at the newly opened CARtime workshop in Riverside. The stories behind the establishment of this business, the intense family values, the intention to empower those with energy and passion for what they do and just the general vibe, are absolutely inspiring.  The idea to start a vehicle workshop was conceptualised in December. The opening date was set for May 1. Everything in between was, for Elmarie Schmahl (owner and executive director) and company, a journey of trust in her vision. “I am a visual person and the picture of what I wanted was clear. I chose CARtime as a franchise partner, and although our vision was initially different due to the scale and additional services I wanted to offer, CARtime supported, guided and provided us with an amazing end result which met all of my requirements.  “Also the bright little car in the logo and the bright colours just do it for me on so many levels. Every staff member was handpicked, everyone committed – some even relocated before they had all the detail,” said Schmahl. Christo Roos said, “Elmarie is my sister. She is a trailblazer, a doer of things; she loves cars, she is energised and totally focused on offering a one-stop range of wow and affordable vehicle services. Whether you bring your car in for service or enjoy our breakfast or a light meal from our wellequipped, bright and cheerful COFFEEtime shop, your customer experience with us will be second to none.”  Roos with his 22 years of mechanical experience is the co-owner/MD responsible for the workshop. His wife, Lizanne, is living her dream with COFFEEtime. Bongi Silubane in reception is as vibrant and cheerful as the little orange car that is so prevalent throughout the business. Richard Ward, co-owner and MD, is a Jaguar Land Rover electronic systems specialist with extensive international experience. “We have 2 000 square metres of space. We have invested in every piece of equipment required to enable us to offer an OEM-comparable and quality mechanical and diagnostic service. We support the Right to Repair Campaign and are intent on offering an unmatched customer experience and quality workmanship. We also have a female master technician on staff, and a lady who speaks no fewer than four languages, inclusive of Swazi and, yes, we can also communicate with you in Portuguese should you prefer it.” “This business will grow in phases and will eventually also become a training facility and much more. So watch this space. You will be amazed and will want to come back for more. We will set the new benchmark for innovation and value retention,” concluded Schmahl. Are you ready, Mbombela? Contact information Visit them at 35 Waterfall Avenue, Riverside Industrial Park. Follow the CARtimeMbombela Facebook page for student and pensioner discounts and much more.    