A sanctuary for many over the past 25 years, Bettie’s Haven may soon be closing its doors if it does not receive the help it needs by June 16. The haven, founded by Bettie Mandlazi in 1996 and now run by her daughter Sonto Mahlangu (32) following her mother’s death earlier this year, was recently visited by a health inspector who told her the home was to be closed down soon if certain changes were not made by June 16. ALSO READ: Taxpayers in the dark over lights deal “There are so many things we need to sort out, but have so little funding. We are struggling to keep all the children fed,” said an emotional Mahlangu when Lowvelder visited her on Monday. She said the health inspector had told her that if she was seen to be complying with the recommendations he made leading up to the June 16 deadline, the due date for the renovations may be extended. ALSO READ: Investigation into light aircraft crash in Polokwane underway “It has been so tough, especially since my mother died. There are so many things to do by June 16. We just cannot get it all done without any help. We need to keep our doors open for the children. They have no where else to go,” she said. The orphanage suffered a fire which destroyed much of the home in 2018, with smoke and water damage still visible in some areas of the house. Bettie’s Haven has also seen a decrease in donations since the start of Covid, all adding to the struggles in keeping the orphanage doors open. ALSO READ: Education department fires teacher for assault on Grade R learner “The inspector told us we needed to repaint most of the home and retile where some of the tiles have fallen off in the rooms. “He said we need to comply by doing these renovations otherwise the home will be deemed unfit for the children to live in. If anyone has spare tiles, paint or bricks lying around in the garage, we would be so grateful if people donated that to us. ALSO READ: Two dead, 13 injured in accident on N4 “We are not expecting people to go out and buy brand-new building material. We are asking for whatever spare material people already have,” said Mahlangu. She said the orphanage was also in need of linen and blankets for six single beds, especially with winter approaching. “We also need boxes to store the children’s clothes and other belongings, a working fridge, trash bins and a communal dining table for 10 children or more. The one we have at the moment only seats six people and the health inspector has said this is something we need to rectify.” Other items needed in the orphanage are three bags of cement, tile cement, standard doors, washing lines and cleaning supplies. She said she was also battling to get meds and diapers for one of the children with special needs; as he was born in Mozambique, South African organisations are not as willing to help. ALSO READ: SUPERSPAR Plaza better than ever “He recently started having fits and I had to rush him to the doctor for a private consultation and pay R700 out of my own pocket. This is not a complaint, because I love these children and do everything I can for them, but I want people to understand that looking after children with special needs is very costly. He is currently being assisted at Rob for physio and speech, but any private consultations I must pay from my pocket. This does not include medication,” she said. To donate or support Bettie’s Haven and its children, contact Mahlangu on 079-726-4042.