The first deadly crash happened when a truck and a minibus taxi collided on Wednesday. One person died at the scene and 14 people were seriously injured. They were rushed to Rob Ferreira Hospital for medical treatment. Two of the seriously injured have since succumbed to their injuries, bringing the total number of fatalities to three. The second incident happened on Thursday afternoon when a truck and sedan collided on the same road leaving three women dead. Two people, a driver and his passenger sustained serious injuries. It is alleged that the truck, which was transporting potatoes, was coming from the direction of Mbombela towards Waterval Boven when it collided with the sedan. The sedan was reportedly coming out of a nearby shopping centre and it was entering the road at the time. The claimed yet another three lives in the early hours. This happened after a Kia Picanto hatchback overturned. The deceased are all passengers who died at the scene. One person was slightly injured while another one sustained critical injuries. It appears as if the driver may have lost control before the vehicle overturned. Investigation into all three crashes are underway. Shongwesaid, “It worries us that we have lost nine people in just days on that part of the road. Like many of our roads, there is nothing wrong with the road. The challenge lies with the drivers. They should obey the rules, remain cautious and also ensure that their vehicles are always roadworthy. Our roads should not be needlessly turned into bloodbaths due to bad drivers. “While we continue to strengthen our law enforcement and road safety initiatives, we will relentlessly advocate for punishment of those found guilty of bad driver behaviour”. The MEC warned motorists to continue observing the lockdown regulations because some of the crashes happened during curfew. He explained this will not only bring the motorists in conflict with law, but it will affect insurance claims. The MEC sent his condolences to all the bereaved families and wished the injured a speedy recovery.   