The competition aims to highlight the vibrant craft sector in South Africa by encouraging and honouring the excellence in skill of both those who set out to make pieces that can be easily reproduced and commercialised and those whose objective it is to create unique, wondrous once-off pieces. The competition was launched in 2017 and attracted over 1 300 entries from emerging and established crafters across South Africa in 2020. The submitted works included functional and decorative pieces and highlighted the vast range of materials used by the country’s crafters, their adaptation to changing consumer trends and their ability to innovate. The awards are organised by John-Anthony Boerma and Jan Bhuda of ArtAid Africa and are hosted by the National Innibos Arts Festival. “From the start, it was our intention to create a platform for crafters to highlight their work and to show the world just how much talent there is in South Africa. One of our primary goals was to keep the competition as inclusive as possible, which we achieve by not charging an entry fee and keeping the entry process as simple as possible,” said Bhuda. DSAC’s partnership with the Innibos National Craft Awards was motivated by the department’s desire to encourage and stimulate creativity and innovation in the craft sector, which has the potential to help people break free from poverty and use their hands to create a livelihood. Four categories of the awards are aimed specifically at those people who aim to commercialise their work. One winner will be identified in each category and will walk away with R20 000. In addition, a winner and two runners-up will be identified in the once-off category (one-of-a-kind items). Prizes are R50 000, R20 000 and R15 000, respectively. Entries in all disciplines, from grass-weaving and ceramics to beadwork, wirework, wood, jewellery, paper, fabric painting and printing, quilting, leatherwork, pewter, glasswork, embroidery and mixed media are invited. Final judging will be done by a panel of independent and expert adjudicators, with a virtual exhibition and prize-giving taking place in September. A highlight of this year’s awards will be the Lifetime Achiever Award that will be bestowed on the globally renowned Ndebele painter, Dr Esther Mahlangu, who is considered a national treasure. From 2022, the craft sector will be requested to nominate subsequent recipients of the Lifetime Achiever Award. ALSO READ: COMPETITION: #ILoveMom – Happy Mother’s Day Crafters have until midnight on August 13 to enter. Simply take a photo of the entry – next to a matchbox for size and scale, and either email it to crafts@innibos.co.za or send it to 071-621-3597 via MMS or WhatsApp. There is no entry fee. Terms and conditions apply and can be found on the competition’s Facebook page – https://www.facebook.com/Innibosnationalcraftawards. Remember to include your name, the town in which you live and your contact details. Entrants who have not heard from the organisers within 30 days of the closing date must assume that they have not been shortlisted for final judging. ALSO READ: Penryn pioneers revolutionary system of movement assessment with UK partner For more information, please WhatsApp Bhuda on 071-621-3597 or email Boerma at artaid@lantic.net. To keep up to date with the Innibos National Craft Awards, like it on Facebook: @InnibosNationalCraftAwards and connect with it on Instagram: Innibos National Craft Awards.