These bulbs have been designed to function when there is no electricity available. They contain an internal battery that charges up when switched on during periods of available electricity. As soon as the electricity goes off the bulb automatically turns on, powered by the now fully-charged internal battery. These bulbs should give you about 3 hours of illumination and are a must if moving around your home safely and comfortably during evening load shedding is a priority to you. This is the most effective way to convert free and clean solar energy into domestic hot water, all year round.  What is thermal insulation? Thermal insulation is the process of reducing the transfer of heat between objects that are in thermal contact. The insulating capability of a material is measured as the inverse of thermal conductivity (k) – so low thermal conductivity is equivalent to high insulating capability. Maintaining a comfortable interior temperature by heating and or cooling the interior constantly, makes up a big part of the world’s energy consumption. Well-insulated buildings will: A) Be more energy-efficient Summit XPS insulation board will reduce the amount of energy used for heating and cooling the home or working environment and will help to maintain the specific temperature required in commercial and agricultural buildings. B) Increase comfort levels Insulation helps to maintain a uniform temperature (typically between 21oC and 28oC) in a home or office, producing a more comfortable environment for the occupants. C) Be more eco-friendly In this way, Summit XPS insulation board helps to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, lowers the carbon footprint of a building and helps to achieve compliance with National Building Regulations SANS 10400-XA. The gasses used in manufacturing have zero ozone depletion potential, with no significant contribution to increasing the greenhouse effect. The product has an almost indefinite lifespan if installed correctly and will contribute to significant energy savings. D) Save money In addition to reducing the cost of maintaining a comfortable temperature, Summit XPS insulation board has minimal recurring expenses. Unlike heating and cooling equipment, insulation is permanent and does not require maintenance, upkeep or adjustment. E) Improve health and productivity of workers Better thermal insulation reduces the build-up of condensation, resulting in a healthier environment. In most commercial and agricultural applications, effective temperature control has an impact on production outputs and input costs. Click on the picture for an enlarged view.    