The recent announcement by SAPS management regarding the planned alleviation of the backlog in DNA testing was met with mixed emotions. According to a statement dated April 26, great strides have been made to overcome the backlog in DNA testing. The system to track and trace forensic exhibits is now fully up and running. This followed a reported “disappearance” of millions of forensic exhibits at the National Forensic DNA Database, due to the Property Control and Exhibit Management system being shut down by the service provider in June.   The founder of GRIP, Barbara Kenyon, said as an organisation working with victims and survivors of sexual assault, it has seen cases going cold due to delays caused by the backlog. GRIP helps thousands of survivors of rape and domestic abuse, from young to old. “We will be happy to see change, but we doubt it will reach Mpumalanga anytime soon. We feel a lot of things are mentioned, however, we see little action, if any. I will believe there is indeed light at the end of the tunnel after I have seen action. We have seen young victims not receiving justice, because they forgot what transpired the day they were raped. This is because the DNA results came years later. Imagine a child having to remember properly an incident that had occurred while they were still a toddler. Kids struggle to remember what they had for lunch yesterday,” she explained. Kenyon said the DNA testing delays have been an issue for several years and it needs to improve for the sake of the victims. ALSO READ: SAPS provide updates on progress made in DNA testing, tracking and tracing Ntombifuthi Sambo was a Friend of the Tonga Court since 2010 and recently joined the Nelspruit Regional Court. She said, “While working at Tonga I have witnessed cases pending for years. Sometimes this affects the outcome of the case. Some of the reasons we hear is that the DNA results are not back yet. I wish labs would prioritise rape cases.” ALSO READ: The good doctor of Barberton She said it is heartbreaking to watch victims going home without getting the service they had hoped for. “In the past years I have seen very little improvement and I wish we can see more change. I understand that South Africa has to assist neighbouring countries, but these victims still need justice,” she explained.