With her brand-new braces, a local little girl with a rare disease will start her journey to improve her movement and strengthen her legs, thanks to the efforts of PCA and donors Skankane Transport and GB2C. Luché desperately needed orthotic braces to keep mobile and improve her walking. She had a set of braces she had been borrowing, however, a few months ago, the set had to be returned. Pediatric Care Africa’s (PCA) secretary, Surika van der Merwe, said physiotherapy alone was not enough to help strengthen her legs, and she urgently needed a set of orthotic braces if she was to have a reasonable gait and walking ability. ALSO READ: Sentences imposed on four rhino poachers PCA appealed for donations to afford these braces for Luché, as each orthotic brace costs R20 600 per set. Van der Merwe said while asking for help with payment for the braces, Skankane Transport and GB2C (Giving back to the Community) of Crossing Shopping Centre stepped up and donated R10 000 each. “The big day arrived and our little girl was fitted her brand-new braces by Neil Taljaard, a well-known orthotist at Kiaat Hospital, and the smile on her little face explained her joy and happiness,” said Van der Merwe. “Without the kindness and support of Skankane Transport, GB2C and Neil Taljaard, Luché would not have received her braces due to the prohibitively high price. Thank you all very much, you are her heroes,” she said. ALSO READ: Bad Peter sets the stage on fire Luché’s teachers at Pro Gratia said the difference the braces make, not only in her walking ability but on her outlook on life, had been amazing. “We were really worried about her when the loan set was returned. She had always been this very outgoing and happy little girl, but without her braces, she became really reserved, would just want to sit in the classroom and not really interact with anyone,” said one of Luché’s teachers, Carina Snyman. “As soon as she heard she would be going back to the doctor to get the braces, we saw the biggest difference. She was back to her smiling, happy self. She is really intelligent and just wants to learn. She is a remarkable little girl.” For more information on PCA and how you can help, visit www.pediatriccareafrica.org.