Consumers primarily use their mobile phones these days to access the internet, play music, watch videos and so much more. Businesses are able to reach their customers through their mobile devices by investing in mobile advertising. As mobile devices become an increasingly integral part of our daily lives, many companies have become aware that the mobile phone is the new hotspot for marketing strategies. Help you identify customer pain points and needs Post sharing on social media, Facebook campaigns and webinars help you engage directly with your customers. With online social platforms such as Twitter and Instagram, businesses can provide their client base with a personal, one-on-one relationship by reaching out to them and receiving feedback. Social media marketing campaigns, which can often be funded by securing additional business funding in South Africa, can drive long-term revenue gains for SMEs.  The power of SMS marketing SMS is a powerful tool when used for clever marketing strategies. Customers prefer convenience. In the fast-paced world we live in today, businesses can accommodate the busy schedules of their customers by sending an SMS with delivery updates and appointment reminders. Instead of the customer checking their email for information from their favourite retailer, businesses can send optimised on-the-go messaging and receive notifications with sales, product launches and promotional offers. Be with your customer wherever they go Brands and businesses can now be with their customers 24/7. As long as the customer has a smartphone, consumer engagement can take place with the use of mobile apps. From the moment the customer installs your business application on their device, relationship building between them and your brand can be strengthened. Apps help to identify your loyal customers and through the insights they provide you on these individuals, allow you to communicate in a far more personalised manner.  Invest in quality An amateur app for your business could mean its downfall. Industry experts advise on using only the best software developers and marketing strategists – which could require significant upfront investment and may mean you may need to apply for business funding in South Africa to fund the project. Good apps produce great ratings and reviews. Consumers compare the rating of different apps before downloading them. Mobile advertising provides businesses with the opportunity to reach new customers, build up leads, convert leads into sales, and be successful in their marketing. Meaning, a high-quality business app can generate significant ROI despite the initial costs . For more business tips and information on small business funding, visit: https://www.lulalend.co.za/ Follow Lulalend on the following social media platforms: