The former minister of state security appeared in the Nelspruit Regional Court on Tuesday. He faced charges of fraud, corruption, theft, money laundering and contravention of the Public Finance Management Act in Mpumalanga for his alleged involvement in questionable land deals, totalling almost R124 million. The case has been postponed until January for trial. The conditions of Bongo’s R10 000 bail will possibly be changed at this time. The corruption case dates back to 2011 when Bongo was an official in the Mpumalanga Department of Human Settlements. He was arrested by the Hawks last October after complaints had been made by whistle-blowers and the DA. Bongo, an ANC MP, and the other accused allegedly bought farms, that the department had purchased for township development in Ermelo, eMalahleni and Malalane, at inflated prices. According to the Hawks, the department already owned a property that could have been used for the same purpose. The combined value of the three farms was actually around R70 million, but due to the alleged corrupt dealings, the deals cost the department R123,9 million. ALSO READ: Unions plead with Nelspruit High Court to consider Lily Mine workers and families Bongo is one of 11 people implicated in the alleged fraud and corruption, including his brother, Sipho, and ex-wife, Sandile Nkosi, who handed herself over to the Hawks in February. Bongo was acquitted of other corruption charges in the Western Cape High Court in February. However, the NPA has applied for leave of appeal to challenge this verdict. Bongo has maintained that the cases against him are politically motivated, though he has been tight-lipped about who is supposed to be behind these motivations and why. Supporters dressed in ANC attire waited outside the court building. Bongo is currently at odds with the ANC due to their step-aside resolution. The ANC national executive committee decided last month that leaders who had been criminally charged had 30 days to step aside or face suspension. This deadline expired last week. Bongo has yet to step aside and has stated that he would not rule out fighting this decision by the ANC in court.