Wild dog numbers in general are still in decline, but the Kruger population numbers are not. Grant Beverley of the Endangered Wildlife Trust’s (EWT) carnivore conservation programme said the Kruger’s wild dog numbers are currently between 300 and 350. This shows the strides that have been made from the measly all-time low of 120 in 2009. The aim is higher still, though, as before the decline the number had stood at about 450. One of the main reasons this steady increase has been possible is due to a collaborative collaring project between SANParks and the EWT. GPS satellite tracking collars enable a near real-time monitoring platform. This platform specifically has been running since last year.  Near real-time refers to the two-hourly updates that are received from the collars. Location data is recorded, stored onboard and transmitted via a network of satellite or ground-based receivers that process the data and relay this information to a central database. ALSO READ: Poacher sentenced to 25 years’ worth of concurrent sentences for killing Kruger rhino Of the 30 wild dog packs found in the Greater Kruger area, 21 of them are currently being monitored through these R65 000 collars. The goal is to have all 30 packs trackable within the next few months, said Beverley. Luckily, only one animal in the pack needs to be collared.  Initially, this was the alpha male, but in recent years, it has become one of the females (specifically not the matriarch, however, seeing as she goes into “denning” for one to two months out of the year when having pups, during which time she does not move with the pack). This change came about after researchers realised that a female’s position is more rigid, whereas alpha males are sometimes challenged out of their position and then, more often than not, leaves the pack to find another one. ALSO READ: Organisation goes out on a wing for vulture Considering the collars have little to no effect on animal behaviour, Beverley said their benefits far outweigh any concerns.