Lowvelder has been flooded with complaints from residents regarding uncut and potentially dangerous verges and damaged roads, with unpainted lines and massive potholes. A West Acres resident, Sonja Janse van Rensburg, said there are several potholes in Marula Street that need to be fixed. “I’ve reported it via email, but the mails come back marked with ‘mailbox full’,” said Janse van Rensburg. “I’ve tried filling them with sand, but every time it rains heavily or water flows out of the stream at Bamboo Rock, it washes away.  “Some of the potholes are becoming deeper with the water running into Marula Street. It would be appreciated if the potholes could be attended to,” she said. ALSO READ: Spectators run afoul of Covid-19 regulations Another West Acres resident, Louise Minnaar, sent Lowvelder pictures of overgrown verges on Percy Fitzpatrick Drive and Delta Street. Monika le Roux Herbst indicated that the Uitkyk Road at Renosterkop was ridden with potholes, while Nico Hall identified Loco Road being prone to potholes. Other residents also mentioned potholes and unmarked roads in Sonheuwel Ext 1. Locals also responded with a flood of comments on the Lowvelder Facebook page regarding uncut verges, garnering over 20 comments about the city’s overgrown brushes hanging over into major roads and potentially obscuring the view of traffic and other vehicles on the roads.  Nadine Maree posted on the Facebook page that the road between Steiltes and Nelsville was an issue. “I have never seen this road looking worse. Grass is literally growing into the tar.” Glynis Uys commented that it was “easier to ask which ones (roads) did not (have overgrown verges)”. ALSO READ: Department advises wiser use of water as Mpumalanga dam levels continue to decline Michèle Gilday added that the Koraalboom intersection had become a danger to motorists as the grass had not been cut. Santie van der Westhuizen posted, “Kaapsehoop Road all the way from Core 360 for about 10 kilometres – sand on roadside, overgrown trees and bushes hanging in the road. The entire space between pavement and yellow line needs to be cleared.” “It is so stressful coming from work in the afternoon. There are joggers and cyclists there in the late afternoon and oncoming cars crossing into your lane with nowhere for you to go. This is a very dangerous situation, especially now that it is getting dark early,” posted Berdine Malan. The publication is still awaiting comment from the City of Mbombela Local Municipality regarding the state of its roads.